>> Yeah. Yeah. Great points, John. Thank you. Thank you. >> They're not they're not very hopeful points, are they? >> No.
>> Are they from your point of view? Uh are are you on the side of uh hopefulness or are you on the side of of let's say realism? >> Yeah, I I would stay with realism. I I don't want to be hopeful. I I don't think that hope going to change anything for the region and that's why everything should be practical.
That's why you know I don't see the United States changing its policy in the region. Let's see. >> Well, do you see the United States as so significantly weakened um militarily at the bases and economically let's say on the oil price in the let's let's say so significantly weakened it's ready to to make the concessions the Iranian side want in Doha.
 Do you see that? I see their bases basically Wall Street Journal reported that the United States is thinking of moving their bases westward, you know, going to Jordan to Israel. That would be huge if that happens. Let's see what would happen with the bases. But I don't see the United States getting back putting those radars know so expensive by the way.
 you know, one of them one billion1 point billion dollars because Iran gonna attack them and again and they're going to be nothing there and that's why I don't see the United States getting back to those bases the way it was before the war started. Let's assume let's see if they're going to send fighter jets.
 They may have sent the fighter jets, you know, to to the bases. I my my understanding of the bases is not the problem with the bases. It's about how the United States is trying to support Israel >> to somehow, you know, because right now the main concern in my opinion, the threat against Iran has been reduced drastically in the Persian Gulf because Iran has the capabilities and has the understanding.
 They're not hopeful about anything happening. you know with theou they know what isou >> and basically a road map but when it comes the main concern is for the people in Palestine in in Gaza in the West Bank >> and the case of Lebanon somehow I am not that much concerned about Lebanon because I know Hezbollah is so capable even more capable before the assassination than they were before the assassination >> yes >> of that's Why on these two fronts I'm not that much concerned as much as I'm concerned about Palestine because I think the case of Palestine is so
serious and Israel wants to enex the West Bank and let's see what would happen. The board of peace is doing nothing. The guys who yeah these countries who signed the agreement they're doing nothing and I think the huge you know it depends on the region basically on Iran and Turkey.
 Let's see what would happen with these two countries. Yeah, my understanding is this. >> Well, we left this very big question mark about what Turkish intention >> would be visav the Lebanon uh and visav Iran. Do you have a sense how the how Iran views Turkish intentions? Turkey on one side wants to be part of NATO, wants to be perceived as you know as a very important part you know member of NATO.
 On the other hand they see the region. You look at what Erdogan is saying in the recent days or in the recent weeks basically talking about Zionism the greater Israel is the main problem of the region the case of Palestine but practically he's doing nothing. practically he's putting no pressure on Israel at least from what we've seen so far.
 We don't know if he did something but he has the support from the Turkish people. He has the support from the public opinion in Turkey and I think Turkey is the key in the region. Turkey can help the the the position of the acts of resistance. Even with the case of Syria, Syria is not Syria has somehow complicated the problems of Israel.
 You can argue that the fall of Bashar Assad was in what this Syria is so complicated >> and I think that's a pain in the neck of Israel in the coming years because they're facing Turkey there. They're facing you know Turkey doesn't let Israel to enex the southern part the golden heights or maybe the southern part they have captured more in the southern part of Syria.
 Yes, >> that's that's key and that's let's see what would happen on that front which is not related by the way to Iran or Russia or any other player. It's all about Turkey going against Israel. >> Yes. >> Yeah. And these are huge questions in my opinion. >> Yes. I I I hope our audience doesn't mind leaving a podcast with question marks rather than exclamation marks.
Exclamation marks are are religious. Question marks are a little bit more human. >> Yeah. Thank you so much, John, for being with us today. Great pleasure as always. >> Thank you, Nema. See you next week. >> See you next week.
