Hi everybody. Today's Tuesday, June 30th, 2026 and our dear friend, our brother John Helmer is here with us. Welcome back, John. >> Thank you for having me. It's good to be back. >> John, let me start with it's been a while that we didn't talk about the we didn't have the opportunity to talk about because of the chaos in the West Asia.
 We we we always we were we were so focused on West Asia. But >> getting back to Ukraine and what's going on and the situation with the new sort of waves of escalations, the use of drones and the way that Ukraine is trying to continue the fight against Russians. Do you think with this these sort of you know I would say some the people in Russia are so tired of this war and they want to get out of this war as soon as possible and how do you see the conflict in Ukraine is are we going to see some sort of escalations? Are we going to see some sort of new talks
between the two sides? Which part is more in your opinion is more possible talks or escalations or maybe none of them the same sort of conflict that we've seen and we have been witnessing so far. >> We have a permanent war against Russia and u in a certain sense uh uh your headline today is an important one.
 Escalation is imminent, but escalations on both sides and escalation for the Russian sides too late too late. Let let me try to explain um the without trying to minimize the significance of of the forward movement westward by the Russian forces on the Ukrainian fronts, the five directions. It's a a very odd thing when XCIA men or XMI6 men, I won't mention the names, everybody knows who I'm talking about, uh report um that uh the the Russian sides preparing to attack NATO um or that there's about to be some form of internal palace coup in in Moscow, that
sort of thing. Let me unpack all of that. uh XCIA men and XMI6 men have lost the ability to collect intelligence the way they were taught or else they are actually representing CIA6 psychological operations to increase the perception that internally Russia is weak, vulnerable and and ready to to degenerate into some form of of political uh and and military conflict.
None of this is true. What's true is this that as you said Nema um the advances in drone warfare are so rapid so extensive that it makes it possible for a future of Ukraine as a firing platform without any people without a population if that can be done and it's being tested now um we'll come to the tests in a minute the two primary uh Russian war aims, demilitarization of the Ukraine and denazification of the Ukraine proved to be impossible.
In other words, what we can get, what we can achieve on the ground westward going westward uh can be in fact that the completion of the liberation of Daetsk region. That's not quite complete yet. Not by a long shot. Primorse uh sorry Prosovsk is not yet um Russian and there are a range of major elomerations that are still uh intensely fought over.
That's Daetsk uh Zaparoa and Herson regions. The other two Lagansk is more or less 100% uh Russian controlled now are not. The problem is that suppose they were 100% controlled by Russia. Even if Russian forces occupy, are they safe from intense drone warfare every night, every night, uh every day? uh the problem of Ukraine turning into a firing platform against Russia, not only the four regions but Crimea as well uh and then inland uh the hinterland of Russia.
 The problem there is that there's no way of demilitarizing the firing platform against drones by the current military means. worse um denazification even if you accept what some people urge a decapitation of the Zalinski regime in Kiev you can't denazify um the forces against Russia when they are spread out not only in Kiev but in Berlin in Paris in London in uh in Finland and throughout NATO NATO is Nazified now and it's perfectly clear and has been for a long time to the general staff that Russia is not ready to fight a long permanent war against
NATO. Though the general staff and and Russian military intelligence according to my sources for a long time now except that this permanent war will be a long one. Therefore, the general staff view has been to achieve by military means um the support for a diplomatic negotiation or a form of negotiation which would achieve a significant pause, a pause, not a not an end to war.
 A pause, however, uh accepts that that that the demilitarization and denazification goals can't can't be achieved when Russia's uh being attacked uh in the hinterland on the high seas far far from the Russian shore wherever Russia is trading that war is continuing and it can't be solved. It cannot be solved by negotiation.
 We we've just seen and we were talking about this before that even Secretary of State Rubio now states that the so-called Anchorage formula is not an agreement. He he said 5 days ago, I believe it was in Bahrain, that the anchorage formula on which President Putin has personally um based his negotiating approach and on which his particular US uh negotiator Kir Ditri continues to to function.
The Anchorage formula doesn't exist. Rubio said if it did exist, we'd have had an end to the war. from the Russian side. U this has been understood for a long time now by foreign ministry officials and President Putin has slapped them down publicly either by per personally or by through the spokesman Dmitra Peskov or the other spokesman Yuri Ushakov.
 What was the anchorage formula? It was the confidence on the Russian side that the US would not foster permanent war against Russia. That the US would give Russia a security guarantee in Europe. That it would support a a let's call it a Europewide peace arrangement. That's not what's happening. in fact through the drone mechanism fired at Russian trading vessels, oil and gas tankers abroad as far away as the southern Mediterranean or the Indian Ocean or uh the refinery attacks in in the Russian.
 All these things mean is that NATO is continuing with US direction and help and intelligence gathering um in such a way as to make Ukraine an effective firing platform without people. So if you imagine a range of uh Russian escalations, the use of the arric uh for example inside the Ukraine, it's what the Russian side has been unable to do in attacking the military infrastructure of Ukraine.
 It's been unable to reduce the volume of drone production, drone firing, drone precision targeting, no matter how escalating Russian uh air and attacks are, no matter how deep into the west they go, the volume and intensity of Ukrainian drone warfare has not been significantly deterred. So escalation on the Russian side no longer has deterrence from that.
Second, the US is as committed to this long war against Russia as the Europeans. It's simply false, false, foolish, wishful thinking to imagine that Russia h can divide the US or the Trump administration or the Trump himself and the family of the president from the Europeans. This is a this is a line that has lost its meaning.
 It's lost its meaning politically. It's lost its meaning militarily. And that's where we are. John, you when you look at Europeans today, do you think that with because the tone with the Democrats is that the war in in the West Asia somehow they're wrapping up the war. Let's go. Let's find a way to support Ukraine.
And it somehow feels because Donald Trump himself said Zelen he said that Zalinski is doing well in Ukraine. >> Yes, >> that's that's not a good sign for those people who are negotiating who will try to negotiate with the United States. It means that Donald Trump first of all Ukraine is not anymore the priority of the administration.
 Second you see some sort of Europeans have the upper hand when it comes to the policies in Ukraine. I don't know how do you see the relationship between the Trump administration and Europeans when it comes to Ukraine? What and how does Russia perceive that? Well, there's so many delusional ideas floating around about this. I I I need to unpack a few.
 Um, of course there are all sorts of frictions that from time to time between uh somebody as as mercurial and as unpredict predictably unpredictable as Trump um between himself and the the let's call it the the lead leaders of Europe. So um uh Miss Maloney, the prime minister of Italy, for example, um is as committed to the war, permanent war against Russia as anyone else.
 Never mind whether she's to be classified as extreme right in Italian politics. She's having a particular conflict uh with Trump at the moment uh in which Trump has insulted her in Italian politics. I'm well informed by Italians. Um, she's got a problem of how to defend the pope, how to preserve her position as a supporter of permanent war against Russia as well as a supporter of Israel.
by the way, uh, at the same time as accommodating a personal spat with Trump that Trump is undermining her position. And it's unclear where a a a figure like Maloney can go when she's in that sort of argumentative position as the as the Italian voters try to find the alternative to Maloney. We've seen the episode with England or Britain, Great Britain for example, just played out.
For a long time, the Russian side thought it might be better um if Prime Minister Stalmer were replaced, better for Russia, better for a negotiated solution with the Ukraine. And what's the outcome? The outcome is that Andrew Bernham is about to become prime minister of a Labor party that's severely damaged.
But he's as committed to the wars against Russia in Europe as Stalmer was. And he's as committed to the support of Israel in the war against Iran as Stalmer was. And there's absolutely no significant underlying policy change in uh in Great Britain either. We could go on with the the unlikelihood that the Rasmblau national nional, the national um form that the uh national front in and the leen party has taken in in France.
 We can discuss if you like how that's evolving, but it's not evolving in a way that will ever ever stop this underlying permanent war against Russia. Why? Why in each of these cases? Because the underlying capital structure, the underlying economic interest structure, the underlying uh forms of the economy continue to be favorable to permanent war against Russia.
 shifting and changing the prime ministry or the membership of parliaments in those countries doesn't change uh the underlying commitment to permanent war against Russia, weakening Russia in Europe, destroying Russia in Europe. And on that score, it's simply delusional for some of our colleagues in the podcast universe to say that that the United States is being defeated in Europe.
 Instead, we've tried to argue it's the reverse. Yes, there are reverses. There are PR uh spats. There are differences, significant differences between the United States and each of the European powers. But the success is Trump has gotten the Europeans to buy American to continue the underlying US empire strategy of destroying Russia in Europe. And it's working.
 And it works now despite the loss to Germany. Massive loss to Germany of cheap energy. Um the massive costs of fueling this militarization of each of these economies in each of these places. the voter the possibility of voters um making a significant shift towards Russia resume allowing Russia to resume its former perspective role in in in in Europe the sort of ostit um of Germany and Russia in the past that's not possible it's not going to happen so in that sense the the US is becoming more powerful has dictated more effectively European politics. After
all, President Trump symbolized this by telling Star to go. I mean, I the symbolism of a United States president intervening in British politics like that is is indicative. US is now more powerful in Europe and U and European voter resistance weaker in Europe than I can remember for a long time. In that sense, the US empire is winning in Europe, not losing.
 in the same sense uh we could we could then move on to the the Middle East and in Iran but for the time being if if it's possible to imagine uh Europe will support will pay for um a US success in turning Ukraine into an effective firing platform for the future without people if necessary without people And the only kinds of escalation that Russia can militarily introduce that it hasn't already is cutting that firing platform off from its sources of supply.
 This President Putin has not allowed yet. That means cutting off entirely cutting off the railroad road connections between Poland as a NATO supply base for the Ukraine uh a and uh western Ukraine and the Kiev regime and the fighting France. That hasn't happened yet. That could happen. But can it fundamentally change the balance of power in the Ukraine or the balance of war? Well, well, it hasn't been tried yet, but it's unlikely to change the balance in Europe.
 Now, suppose, and I've heard, you've heard our colleagues say that uh Russia might consider attacking uh drone manufacturing plants in in Europe. Uh Russia might escalate against Europe. One's even heard Sergey Caraganov suggest the possibility of a limited nuclear attack in in a NATO territory. Unfortunately for those who wish for this display of Russian muscle, it's impossible, unlikely in an extreme.
 Why? until recently that it was clearly put in strategy not to trigger anything that would consolidate US and European mobilization around Russia as an enemy and an attack on a NATO territory would do that. Um, now even if one accepts that the US and the Europeans are much closer together strategically against Russia than Russia has calculated in the past, such an attack would have a mobilizational effect and it would trigger exactly what the general staff don't want, an escalation of NATO capacities with US reinforcements on more points of
vulnerability up and down the Russian front with NATO than Russia can cope with. Right now, it's been Russia's strategy, as I said, to seek pause in this war. So, a significant attack um on a NATO target um would have reverse political effect. It would mobilize against, it wouldn't deter.
 What I began by saying is Russian escalation has lost its deterrent capability outside the Ukraine. It's lost its capability to demilitarize inside the Ukraine. This is this is a very regrettable situation we're in now and it can't be solved by minimizing um the uh the degree to which there's a there are differences of political opinion between the European states or between Europe and the United States.
 And it can't be addressed by exaggerating Russian military power and minimizing NATO power. This is the wrong approach. This is delusionalism. It's not realism. We've got to solve a realistic problem. And the problem realistically is Russia faces permanent war. How to deal with it? Especially now that we're in an election period in Russia and we have significant gasoline shortages that are affecting truck deliveries that are affecting harvest re uh fueling.
 It affects airplane movement. It affects t internal tourism. This affects voter confidence. And uh we then have a problem of how can the uh Kremlin achieve uh a a neutralization of this opposition by September 18 to 20 when the election held. So all of these problems are serious. This is we're here talking about what's serious and then we can talk about what doesn't work.
 We've tried that and then maybe we can get to what does work to solve Russia's problems. >> Yeah. John Reuters reported that the German defense company Ryan Ryan met >> Yeah. has received a contract from Ukraine for supply of artillery shell and propellant charges worth tens of millions of euros. >> Yes. >> And they announced it on Tuesday today.
And The contract value will be reflected in the financial statement for the second quarter of 2026 and its completion is planned for the first quarter of 2027 next year. >> Yes. So this is I I'm sure that many people are looking at these sort of news coming out and in Russia and they feel there somehow trapped in the policies toward Ukraine.
Well, when you look at Russia today and different sort of mindsets talking to each other, somehow some people criticizing, some people coordinating with administration, some people are none of, you know, basically in the middle of these two and do you think the P administration is getting to the point to think about the timeline of the war? Because the time is so important.
 They're talking about 2027. How many years do they want to you know do they need to put an end to the war? Is that of concern for Russia or they somehow feel that they can continue this war of attrition because this war is a war of attrition. is not that much influencing the Russian society that not not so much but it's basically the casualties on the battlefield have been reduced significantly and the war is happening with the use of drone and all of that and how looking at the the war basically militarily and economically how does Russia see that
>> lots of different ideas you you've given me and our audience there. Nema um the the the war weariness um is rising. The confidence in a short war is declining. Yes. Um, if you live uh if my family in Moscow um are an indication of of where I live in Moscow uh is an indication um the level of tension that's caused by drone attacks at night and the associated disruptions of internet, telephone and so forth increase psychological insecurity.
And one shouldn't underestimate what that means. During the day, there are gasoline shortages and rationing in some parts of the western Russia, starting especially in Crimea, but certainly throughout Western Russia, there's gasoline shortages. There are gasoline rationing. there's a a change in the standard of gasoline to cope with the uh refinery shutdowns and and the destruction of refineries.
 So there's psychological insecurity rising. There's inconvenience and nuisance and trouble and concern. All of these things are felt personally and it's it's no longer appropriate to describe this form of warfare as pin prick. It's as you said attritional whose population can survive longest in in in this kind of war.
 Well, the Russian side will survive longest because the Ukrainian regime is prepared to fight a war without anybody staying alive. it's prepared to sacrifice um its defensive lines in in the Ukrainian east and then move as it loses one defensive line, it will move westward and reestablish new defensive lines, losing uh lives each each time it moves.
 All of those things will happen without a significant improvement in Russian internal security. Right? So um all of these things build up into u that that particular combination I've spoken of before. Russian confidence the Russian voter confidence in President Putin's leadership is correlated with Russian confidence in the Russian army. If the army is made to look I'm not saying it is performing badly.
 It's performing as well as it can given its orders, its run marching orders from the Supreme Commander and Chief President Putin. If the army is perceived to be succeeding in the on the front but not protecting the interior, you you don't Russian voters will blame the administration, will blame President Putin, will blame um the the uh the government, the governor and so forth.
They will vote much like American voters will vote their pockets, their immediate concerns, the their security, their health security and so forth and so on. So you have a a a a situation which from NATO point of view, from CIA point of view, from MI6 point of view, from from all these points of view, fertile ground, vulnerable Russia.
 That's what they want to create, right? They want to create the feeling on Russian voters part that nothing the Russian army can achieve in the Ukraine will protect their security inside Russia. That's that's their war aim. Now you've asked me a bunch of questions about how that plays out. Yes. And we we we can't answer the bigger question.
 we turn that how it plays out into blocks of time between now and se midepptember when the election uh takes place. The question is how does the warfare that NATO, the US and the Ukraine are firing at Russia affect Russian voter intentions if it turns out to significantly threaten the majority of the ruling party, President Putin's ruling party that united Russia.
Then President Putin, having committed himself at last week's party rally to United Russia, will have to try to save his majority. How can he do that? Well, one of the traditional answers that the Russian government has used since Boris Yeltson came into power in 1999 is election fraud, rigging the vote. Roughly speaking, 5% election fraud each major presidential election can be expected if there's a severe contest of confidence.
 Can the can the presidency can the Kremlin achieve 10% uh election rigging to save its majority for the United Russia party? I don't know. If they can't, if there's a significant risk to the Kremlin of a a loss that even heavy vote rigging will not achieve. Will the Kremlin postpone the election? You see, that's a dramatic a dramatic goal of the NATO US side, the Ukrainian regime, the long-d distanceance drone war.
 That's one of their military objectives. That's a political outcome of a military objective. So, we've got to think in in terms of between now and September, what damage can be done to the Russian voting process um that Russia is not already doing to itself. And that's a separate problem. The problem that President Putin refuses to solve is the very high interest rate policies of the central bank governor Alvira Nabolina. That's self-inflicted.
It comes from President Putin's determination to protect Nabolina to pursue policies deeply resented now throughout the economy. That's got nothing to do, relatively speaking, nothing to do with the war aims. that you combine US NATO war aims with with Nabi um policies and you've got a very incendary combination that can trigger very significant votes against the administration.
 So that's the immediate problem we're facing and Putin is trying now to jawbone his way into public confidence. Well, it doesn't work very well. It doesn't work very well. So, if you go around the country asking people, if you ask Chilyabins region people, do they trust President Putin's promises to clean the air from the poison that the local oligarchen has been dumping on Chilyabinsk for years.
 If you go to coal miners in Camarova and ask them what they think of President Putin's attempts to clean up the methane explosion risk in coal mines or you go to Kutsk region and ask what they think of Putin's promises to guard the water level in Lake Bal from Oleg Derapasca uh the aluminium uh oligarch you find loss of confidence based on the perception that President Putin's government is too tied to the Russian oligarchy to reflect uh Russian public confidence.
 Now that's where you've got underlying domestic problems which the US and the Germans, the British, French and Italians and so forth all are attempting to exploit with drone warfare. That's a very very difficult set of problems and I don't pretend to be able to solve them or to suggest there's an easy way out. Neither easy way out for opposition voices in Russia or for the United Russia ruling party or for the general staff or for President Putin himself.
