>> Yeah. John, shifting the gear to the conflict in the West Asia, we know that today the two delegations are in at least one of them is the United States is in Qatar and Iranian going to get there in in two three hours. They're going to get there. There would be no negotiation talks between the two sides.
 Basically, the issue in Gata right now is the frozen Iranian assets. >> Yes. and the Iranian delegation going to be there. They said they're not going to negotiate. They're not going to talk. The American part said they're going to talk with the mediators, Pakistani government and battery government. And we had we have a new MOU between Israel and Lebanon which is basically >> came to destroy the first clause of the MOU between Iran and the United States about Lebanon.
>> Yes. And how do you see the negotiations between or the talks or whatever that could be named is how do you find that between the two sides Iran and the United States? >> Well, first of all, we went through this point by point memoou point by point last time. Um, and we can do the same with the with the Lebanese uhou or the Lebanese Israelou in a minute.
 But let's start with who the negotiators on the US side are. um anyone who res who retains any belief that with uh Steven Witkoff and Jared Kushner as negotiators where uh these are there's no prospect of goodfaith negotiation on any point with them as the negotiators. Um I think the last time we suggested that the Iran insist on in negotiating with Vance with Vice President Vance not with those but not with Kushner and Witoff.
 The problem is that Vance himself as we've said before um has undermined the main points of the US Iranou on the issue for example of releasing the assets that are currently in gutter. Remember that both Vance and Trump have have said that there'll be no release of Iranian assets from Gata. That's the oil revenues that were earned by Iranian oil sales to South Korea moved from South Korea to guttery institutions under US control.
 the the US side has said um that contrary to theou undertaking to release funds no funds will be released unless they're under US control. No um that Iran will not be permitted to spend its own money. It will be directed to spend its its money in the US on food products and farm farm goods and so forth and so on. These are it's a fundamental violation of the spirit of theou.
 But then we we can see rub secretary of state rubio walking away from the is simply saying it's a framework for negotiation. It's not it's there are no commitments there. Uh so uh to be also clear about it Pakistan and gatar are allied to the United States. They're under US military protection, so to speak. They're hardly mediators.
 You have a lot of people relaying messages between two rooms. There's the notion of mediation here I is is an illusion. Uh the the the issue really remains a military one. Can the US dictate um the future of Iran under military attack? Can the US maintain its blockade so as it can enforce its version of the homeless strait regime, the south track, the south corridor close to the Oman shore? Can it stop um the movement of vessels along the north track, the Northshore? The the way in which the Hormos strait has now been partitioned
much the same way that Syria was partitioned after the fall of the Assad regime. So now you have a US corridor in the Homo Strait and you have an Iranian corridor in the Homo Strait. Can that system work? Well, the answer that the Trump Vance Kushner Vitkov group insist on is um um no, it won't be allowed by the US.
 So we have a kind of war of attrition and you have some of some folks saying that the US uh is desperately short of u petroleum resources, crude oil uh production capabilities and the US is under attritional pressure to release oil from Iran through the Hong Strait as quickly as possible. We don't get into how much pressure the US has put on Iran.
 Iran too must get oil out. It must enable its uh oil fields to uh empty their stoages and continue to pump at at their normal volumes into empty tankers and let those tankers go out to market. All of those things suggest there's attritional pressure on both the United States and on Iran.
 That means that each side has some interest in reaching shortterm accommodations. Yes. So that's my long way of answering your question. In shortterm accommodations, what can the current Doha round of talks produce? Can it produce continuing flow of Iranian oil out to market, which Iran must have? Can it produce some release of Iranian asset funds to meet theou conditions on that point without triggering the US indication? No, no money will be released unless the US controls it.
In these situations, both sides are capable of reaching short-term accommodations, not long-term end of war accommodations. And so we we come back to your point about the the uh Israeli Lebanon US umou that was signed in Washington earlier in the week. I um the I I don't want to repeat much of what uh Elijah Magnet on your program said a few hours back.
 U speaking from Lebanese political point of view, pardon me, he pointed out how none of the provisions of theou are enforcable against uh Hezbollah. Um, none of the provisions provide for the s for a withdrawal of Israeli forces south of the Latani River. none of the provisions which the so-called uh presidency of the Ayun presidency has agreed to in Washington under US control um solve the underlying conflict and they don't change the underlying dynamics of permanent Israeli war against anyone who resists and in Lebanon that's Hezbollah. So that that
means a significant problem that it looks to me to be far more difficult to negotiate um term for term in Doha uh than the issue of assets, the issue of movement of oil, the issue of of uh of the homo straight uh partition. those things can be accommodated on a 60-day basis pretty much the way theou is intended for 60 days.
 Um but uh can the underlying dynamic of Israeli expansion into Lebanon, permanent expansion into Lebanon uh with the destruction theou that's been signed uh in Washington this week calls essentially for the destruction of Hezbollah. It refers not to Hezbollah by name but nonstate party actors uh for the total disarmament of that.
 Well, I I I don't need to go into the Lebanese politics of it. Basically, Hezbollah represents roughly speaking a a third of the population of Lebanon and is well entrenched and well institutionalized in all levels of of Lebanese government, Lebanese administration from village to region to to Beirut. So, uh what thisou represents is is the liquidation of Hezbollah and that's a war aim for the Israelis and the Americans.
 Can that be negotiated by Iran in Dha? No, it can't. What's Iran going to do about it? Uh, well, we'll see. I think in Lebanon basically this is MOU and they need to if they're serious about it, they have to ratify it. You you know it it has to go to the parliament in Lebanon and without that sort of process there is nothing. It's a road map basically as they call it.
But I think what is somehow bringing some sort of concern about Lebanon is that if Israel remains in the southern part of Leona River. >> Yes. >> Then because Israel says we're going to stay there, nobody's nobody should attack us. Basically Hezbollah attack no attack from Hezbollah and nobody's going to attack the northern part of Israel.
if they attack the northern part of Israel, we're gonna attack Dahi. We're gonna attack Beirut. And the United States, in my opinion, has created the same problem that we had before the MOU between Iran and the United States because they're going to fight. They're going to back to this sort of fight, two sides, and we we're going to have some sort of confrontation eventually between Iran and Israel.
And well uh between between now and then um theou opens up the invitation on the part of the Aun part of the Lebanese government excluding Hezbollah to invite foreign forces uh especially Arabs which means Syria um to intervene to support this uh destruction of Hezbollah. throughout the territory of Lebanon.
Now, my my colleague Vanessa Bey has written in great detail about that and and I recommend folks who want on the spot correspondent in Beirut go to Vanessa Bey's writing. The issue really here however is a permanent US objective. It has been permanent since the 1940s. The US has every intention of dividing and breaking any form of Arab resistance or Iranian resistance to the US empire in the Middle East.
 Now having partitioned Syria into a Turkish, Israeli and American zone, um the Galani regime is susceptible to being uh induced by the US and Israel. um to uh become the conduit for a range of forces. Some galani types, some uh every other kind of jihadi that's been accumulating in in in around Idlib for many years during the civil war in in Syria.
 So that group can be officially invited by the Aun presidency in Beirut to intervene um from the uh east of Lebanon or from the west of Syria uh to support quotes Israeli goals in the south. In other words, a a two two force attempt to attack Hezbollah. uh that's in theou that's potentially there in theouou and uh as others much more expert than me can show on the ground in Lebanon and in Syria you can see the movement of forces and we can now determine whether the Turkish government which is a major force especially especially along the coast uh uh north
of Lebanon whether the Turks prepared to participate in such a scheme against Hezbollah in Lebanon. What is the Turkish ambition for Lebanon's future compared to the Israeli one and the American one? The US gains from all of this balancing of regional forces. The US thinks it's under uh its maintaining its control.
 The US has long sought to destroy resistance like Hezbollah and has succeeded in the past in each of these Arab states. So, uh it's a major major strategic task for Iran to put up resistance to that. It will continue to support Hezbollah and do less talking about what it's capable of doing to Israel. In the short term, you ask the question, is is Hezbollah ready during the runup to the Israeli election to refrain from some of the uh kinetic interaction, so to speak? Are they willing to fire less if Israel fires less? Can you achieve a certain
shortterm ceasefire that would uh run into the Israeli election? and Pepsi the back of Netanyahu. I I'm I'm far away obviously, Nema. I'm I'm Russian correspondent. I'm far far away. And that you have much much better Arab uh sources and correspondents on your program. And there's Vanessa Bey as well in Beirut herself.
 So uh with all of that expertise uh there are others to answer this question but I'm only emphasizing the similarity to the position Russia faces. The US thinks it's winning and preserving its empire. It's delusional for thing for others to say that's not happening. It is happening. Um there are setbacks here, there are setbacks there.
 But uh to go back to the Doha talks, is the withdrawal of the US from US bases in the Arab shdoms a an issue? Um as it should have been and as it was a an Iranian war aim. What would secure Iran's long-term security if US bases are repaired and reinforced? All of those questions go to the issue of is the US empire collapsing in the Middle East because it's been defeated by Iran.
I don't think the answer is the empire is defeated. I don't think right now we are seeing negotiations on the withdrawal of the US from its bases. We're not even seeing a negotiation on how far away the US Navy will move and SINCOM will move its forces away from the Gulf of Omar. For the time being, um theou uh is fairly silent on how far away the US will move its forces and does then the question is how long can the US sustain the expense of those forces? It's certainly won enough time in the Senate. Trump has achieved a significant
shift of votes in the United States Senate to prevent any form of congressional opposition to the removal of US forces from the region engaged in war against Iran. So uh we are in a in a a much greater situation of flux and much less of a situation of a of a failing US empire. It's not failing.
 It's negotiating from what it thinks to be strength facing its election. Iran's negotiation negotiating from its strength but it has significant problems it has to deliver uh to to the to home to the home population. Ditto Lebanon.
