How um how about the Gulf States? Aren't they re-evaluating their relationship to the United States? We couldn't protect them from Iran and most of our bases in their countries have been destroyed.
>> Exactly. I mean, uh what what kind of security umbrella does the United States provide for these countries? It's quite remarkable, judge, if you think about the situation on February 27th visav our alliance structure in the Gulf and our basing structure in the Gulf. We had all these bases that looked like they provided significant capability for projecting power against Iran.
 Uh and we had close relations with all six of the Gulf states. It looked like we had a quite formidable alliance in place. That was on the 27th and I don't think many people anticipated what would happen uh to that alliance structure and to that basing structure once the war started but in fact what happened is the virtually all the bases were either badly damaged or destroyed and we proved very clearly that we could not provide security for the Gulf States that our security umbrell umbrella was inadequate. Uh this is unequivocally
clear and the question is where do we go moving forward and it's hard to believe that the Gulf States are going to rely on any rely in any meaningful way uh on the United States to provide security for them. They're going to have to choose an alternative path moving forward. Here's Jake Sullivan again and this time I think you'll agree with them.
 Cut number four. I think that they are now questioning the basic model upon which they've built their security which has been essentially a deep partnership security partnership with the United States including forward deployed American bases in their countries. I think now they're asking themselves, what are we getting for that? And do we need basically a more diversified approach that involves a degree of hedging with other powers, maybe including China, and definitely includes quiet diplomacy with Iran to try to make
sure that they're deescalating with their neighbor across the street? >> Hard to disagree. I mean, I think >> I I think he's rarely right, but this is a case uh where he is correct that uh I think the Gulf States have a vested interest in developing a more diversified foreign policy for the reasons we talked about before.
>> What is Netanyahu doing to draw the United States back into war? Well, he's not doing much to draw us back into war because we are not going back into war. I mean, what are we talking about here? Restarting the bombing campaign. As I said to you before, that is a non-starter. It's not going to happen.
 We're not going to restart the bombing campaign. In my opinion, it would be lunacy, right? Uh where Netanyahu is causing us trouble is by his behavior in Lebanon. Uh what the Iranians want uh to make this deal between us and them work uh is for Israel to get out of southern Lebanon and stop bombing South Beirut. It appears that the Israelis have stopped bombing South Beirut for the time being, but they're not getting out of southern Lebanon.
 And this is a real problem in terms of US Iranian relations. So I think what Netanyahu is doing here, he's not dragging us back into the war. Uh what he's doing is he's complicating our efforts to put the memorandum of understanding uh on a firmer footing. Here he is two days ago. Listen to the very end of what he says about from the river to the sea.
>> Much more. I think there are many principles. I'll give you another example. Another principle of the government I intend the broad national government I intend to lead. There is no place for two states. >> What? From the sea of the Jordan, there is no room for two states. >> From the sea to the Jordan, there is no room uh for two states.
 In his own mind, the Greater Israel project is going well. I think he's sophisticated enough to know the Greater Israel project is not going well. Uh he surely understands he's lost in Iran. He's in deep trouble in southern Lebanon. Hezbollah is inflicting significant casualties on the IDF. The IDF is basically worn out. uh despite what has happened in Gaza regarding the genocide, the fact is that Hamas is still intact and it's still a formidable fighting force.
 Uh so the idea that Israel has accomplished great goals and greater Israel is looking like uh uh it's working out swimmingly is an argument that's almost impossible to make these days. And I think that Netanyahu understands this. But the question is, what does he then do when he sees himself and his country in trouble? And the answer is he doubles down.
 This is why when you think about Israel moving forward, it's going to be just more war, uh more horror, more genocide. They really have no choice uh if they want to continue to pursue this goal of a greater Israel. >> Wow. Professor Mayor Shimemer, thank you very much, my dear friend. Uh, I'll be off for a few weeks, but we'll look forward to seeing you in the middle of July.
>> Have a wonderful vacation, Judge, and I look forward to seeing you in a couple weeks. >> Thank you, my dear friend. All the best to you. Coming up later today at 1:15 this afternoon, Scott Ritter at 2:00, Matthew Hoe. At 3:00, Colonel Karen Quatowski, Judge Npalitano for judging freedom. Heat up here.
