Good day. Today is Sunday, 28th June, 2026. And before I proceed with this program, let me remind you again to tick the like button and to check your subscription to this channel. Well, today there has been further news and the two big conflicts that are taking place. The situation in the Persian Gulf continues to deteriorate with Iranian attacks on American military facilities across the Persian Gulf.
 But I will, as I have done in other recent programs, uh start and focus in this program on the situation in Ukraine. And let me first of all begin by um discussing some news that is just coming in which is information from the Russians. a claim that the Russians are making that back in May on the 18th of May to be precise, a Ukrainian colonel belonging to Ukrainian military intelligence was um killed, eliminated as they say, presumably by the Russians.
 The colonel in question is Colonel Ruse Fakf who as I said is a colonel of Ukraine's military intelligence agency. And the information that has been provided comes from Russia's Federal Security Service, the FSB, the organization which is in charge of counterterrorism. And they are saying that Colonel Fakrif um was um the organizer of an attempted assassination of a highranking Russian officer in Crimea on December 1st, 2025.
The attempted assassination was unsuccessful and um subsequently in circumstances that are not at all clear, Colonel Fakv himself was um was killed. Now, um, this is an interesting development because, as I've discussed in previous programs, there's been some indications over the last year or so that the Russians are now starting to take counter action in what might be called the dirty war that um has been raging over the last few years between themselves and Ukraine.
 The Ukrainians, as is well known, have carried carried out various attacks uh and targeted assassinations of senior Russian officials, many in Russia itself. They've assassinated a significant number of Russian military officers. They've also assassinated from time to time um civilians um sometimes the civilians who have been killed like Daria Dugginina the daughter of the Russian intellectual Alexander Dugan appear to have been assassinated unintentionally or well I won't say unintentionally but they were killed um in place of her father who was the
original target. But anyway, the Ukrainians have carried out many assassinations, murders perhaps would be a more accurate word on Russian territory, but it's not been entirely clear whether the Russians have been responding. And there have been a number of deaths in Ukraine. There was a senior Ukrainian military official who was also involved in the intelligence agencies who was assassinated in Kiev some months ago.
 and the Ukrainian special services managed to track down and kill a Ukrainian couple rather and as aian couple who they alleged were the assassins and there's also been also some months ago an assassination in western Ukraine of the prominent nationalist politician in Ukraine. I called him a nationalist politician. Some would use more, shall we say, vivid descriptions for his politics.
 Anyway, the nationalist politician Andre Paru Parubi who was also assassinated. The Ukrainians claimed that the Russians were behind that killing. But the apparent assassin seemingly denies this and insists that he was acting um on his own and for his own reasons. At least those were the reports that I read and heard.
 Well, on this occasion with the announcement by the FSB of, as they put it, the elimination of Colonel Fakrif um and the way the Russians are linking Colonel Fakrif's elimination to operations that he has carried out, including the one the unsuccessful one against um a Russian officer in Crimea. Anyway, the Russians do seem to be hinting that this was a tit fortat killing.
Perhaps that's not a fully accurate description, but anyway, a retaliatory killing, an action by the Russians in the in the dirty war. Now, there doesn't appear to be much information provided by the Russians as to exactly how Colonel Kakarf died. And notice that according to the Russians, he was eliminated on the 18th of May, which was more than a month ago.
And the Russians have only spoken about this now. And well, it's possible that Colonel Fakrif was killed in an air strike or something of that kind, but the fact that the announcement has been made by the FSB, which is a counter intelligence agency, but one which is also apparently in charge of operating the network of agents that the Russians are known to have established in Ukraine.
Well, it looks as if Colonel Fakarf was eliminated, let's use the Russian word, not as a result of action by the Russian military, but through some sort of action arranged by Russian mil Russian intelligence, counterintelligence in this case. In other words, this looks like a targeted killing of an official of Ukraine's military intelligence carried out by the Russians and one which the Russians this time have been willing to acknowledge and talk about.
And I think this must be seen as an escalation, a significant escalation by the Russians in the dirty war. They are now telling the Ukrainians, "Yes, we are eliminating some of your people. You have been carrying out attacks against us, killing of our people on in our own country.
 We are now starting to do the same against you. We are prepared to admit to that fact. Perhaps the Russians by providing an explanation of one action that Fakf was involved in the attempted the attempted killing of a Russian official in Crimeir are emphasizing again that this is a tit fortat action. My guess is incidentally that Fakrif was singled out not just because of this episode in Crimea.
I suspect that the Russians believe that he was involved in further things as well. But it looks as if the Russians are now focusing on attacking or eliminating, as they would say, Ukrainian intelligence officials who are involved in these kind of operations inside Russia. And well, this is obviously a signal, a warning sign to the various intelligence agencies in Ukraine that if they continue doing what they're doing, which I'm sure the Russians expect, then any Ukrainian any senior Ukrainian official who is involved in this sort of
thing is a target for the Russians. The Russians would come will come after him and I think this is going to cause a shift in the mood in Ukraine. The Ukrainians have been carrying out assassinations since 2014. Up to now, there's been no confirmation from Moscow that they're carrying out counter assassinations in Ukraine itself.
That has meant that the Ukrainian officials who are responsible for these assassinations and who remain in Kiev have been fairly confident that they can play this game without any consequences for themselves. Now perhaps it's different and who knows that might make some of them a little bit more wary about involving themselves in this game.
 Though I have to say that my own sense is that they're so steeped in it by now that I doubt that it's going to change very much in terms of Ukrainian behavior. Now there is something else to say which is comes from information that I received I've regularly received over very many months. This is that the Russian counter intelligence agency the FSB has now established very extensive agent networks in Ukraine itself.
And these networks, some of the people in these networks have apparently been sending requests to Moscow. They've been saying that they've been able to do all sorts of, shall we say, covert actions inside Ukraine, assassination, sabotage, things of that kind. and they've been asking for permission to do them.
 And the consistent message that's come back from Moscow is don't do anything. What we need you to do is to provide us with information. If you start engaging in covert activity, be it assassinations, be it sabotage, you risk breaking your cover. And the information you are providing to us is more useful than any covert actions that you might take.
The announcement that the Russians were behind the killing of Colonel Fakarf may suggest that there has been a change of policy in Moscow. And I'm going to suggest again that this perhaps explains the delay in the Russians confirming that they were involved in Colonel Fakarv's death. Presumably, whoever was involved in arranging Colonel Frav's death inside Ukraine has now been extracted or perhaps has gone under deeper cover so that the Russians feel able to confirm their role in Colonel Fakaria's death without exposing or compromising
their networks. Anyway, I think this is an interesting development and we could start to see a lot more of this happen in future and dare I say it, it might not just limit itself to Ukraine. I remember about 10 years ago um a report being provided and this was open source by Russian intelligence agencies to Putin discussing their success in eliminating jihadi networks in the northern caucuses.
And the intelligence agencies told Putin that one of the reasons for their success was that they had not limited their covert operations to the north northern caucuses itself. They'd tracked down the people who were behind these jihadi terrorist operations in the northern caucuses to wherever they went to hide whether it was in the Middle East or indeed in Europe.
 So that is something that the Russians have shown they're prepared to do in the past. I'm afraid there is now a very real possibility that we might start to see the dirty war expand be beyond Ukrainian territory as well. Anyway, I found this incident interesting more because, as I said, of what the FSB is telling us about it than anything else.
 Well, even as the FSB has been conveying these messages, the Russian President Vladimir Putin has now spoken to the annual Congress of the United Russia Party, which is Russia's ruling party. And of course, this congress is being held this year in the context of parliamentary elections which are due to take place in Russia in the autumn.
And of course, they're also taking place at a time when Ukraine, supported by the West, has been conducting various drone attacks and of course other attacks, assassinations, and that kind of thing inside Russia, attacking refineries, attacking or trying to attack factories, doing all of these kind of things, putting particularly heavy pressure on Crimea and Hersan region and these sort of places.
 All as part of what I said about 10 days ago following my return from Russia was an attempt to disrupt the sense of normaly, the sense of Russia carrying on functioning normally, Russians living normally their everyday lives. the economy functioning, business functioning, living standards rising, the sense, the extraordinary sense of normality that you see in Russian cities, Ukraine and the West trying to disrupt that because they understand that this is the only way realistically that they can stop the Russians in their tracks.
that they feel that they have to create some kind of sense of crisis in Russia to try to slow down and reverse the inexraable slide of Ukraine towards eventual defeat. I discussed this at length in a program that I did on this channel and I also discussed it in a program that Alex Christophoru and I did on the Juran.
Both programs um attracted a great deal of attention as I remember and there was some push back against this analysis and some suggestions that if this is was the Kremlin's approach then it was a flawed one. But anyway, today as it happens at this congress of the Russ United Russia party, Vladimir Putin himself, the president of Russia has explained that this is exactly Ukraine's and the West strategy and it is exactly what the Russians are seeking to resist.
In other words, that as much as anything else, the war now has become a war in which the West and Ukraine tried to destabilize the internal situation in Russia by shattering the sense of normaly that exists there. Whilst the Kremlin for its part is working very hard to ensure that this state of normaly is preserved and well we can go to what Putin himself said and we can see that these are his words and I'm taking them now from the Kremlin website itself. self.
 This is their translation, the official English translation of his words. Without exaggeration, Russia is experiencing unprecedented pressure from the Western elites. Notice that he talks about the Western elites. He includes both the Europeans and the Americans. He's not talking about the European elites.
 He's talking about the Americans and the Europeans here. And as we'll see, he says that it's the west that is trying to disrupt the internal situation in Russia to shatter the sense of normaly that exists there, not Ukraine. And then he continues as follows. They are unable to inflict a strategic defeat on us or win a victory on the battlefield.
their attempts to destabilize their the political situation and so internal unrest are failing too. Consequently, they keep encouraging the Kiev regime and they which they have chosen as a battering ram in their struggle against Russia without showing any sympathy for the Ukrainian people. The Kiev regime is retreating along the entire contact line, hence its recent terrorist activities.
How else can one describe targeted attacks on civilians and civilian facilities and practically open recruitment of renegades within our country to carry out sabotage and terrorist attacks? Well, there you have it. It's Putin himself providing his perspective and the Kremlin's perspective of what this war is ultimately about.
 The war began as a western attempt to engineer regime change in Russia. an attempt to create a sense of crisis in Russia through sanctions and military pressure that would lead ultimately to a political crisis which would collapse the political and governmental system in Russia and lead by the way to Putin's own fall.
Military pressure has failed. Ukraine is losing the war. Economic pressure has failed. I saw this for myself when I was in Russia. Whatever misgivings I might have about the central bank's monetary policy, there is no doubt what at all that the domestic economic situation within Russia overall is stable and that living standards have been rising and that the country is in a situation of full employment.
So sanctions have failed. So with the failure of these two things, you try something else. You conduct drone strikes deep inside Russia. They might in themselves fail to do a huge amount of damage, but they do create a sense of tension and nervousness within certainly parts of Russian society. And at the same time, you carry out when you can what Putin calls terrorist attacks.
 In other words, murders and assassinations of Russian officials. And sometimes you go further still with the Russians of course alleging that the Crocus Hall attack which took place some time ago. I think it was about two years ago now. um being one example, a mass terrorist attack on a rock concert which the Russians claim was organized by Ukrainian intelligence.
So this now according to Putin is the plan is the default plan that as the Russians say Ukraine's western curators have fallen back on. All else having failed. And of course Putin says to the United Russia party that this plan is failing too. The sense of normaly in Russia in other words is being preserved overall.
the attempts to so panic and create chaos within Russian society using the drone attacks and such things is not succeeding and Putin is telling United Russia which is of course the Kremlin's political vehicle for exercising political control and influence right across the vast territory country of Russia.
 Um this attempt to sew discord is failing too. Now, of course, Putin would say that and perhaps privately he is more concerned about the internal situation than he's prepared to let on when he addresses like this his own party. There was a meeting a couple of days ago as I discussed of Russia's security council, its top decision making body and they did discuss the internal situation inside Russia and the steps that the security agencies within Russia are taking to keep the situation under control.
and the head of the FSB, Bournikov, and the interior minister who was the official in charge of the police, Kolk both delivered reports which of course we have not seen. But for the record, I think Putin overall is right. I was recently in Russia. In fact, I was there just two weeks ago. I was in Moscow.
 I was in Scorf, which is in many respects a frontline city. People of course were aware of the drones. People of course were aware of the war. But I was astonished at the extent to which normal life nonetheless manages to continue. And I did not get any sense of any mood of crisis or of panic in these two pl in these two cities.
And well um yesterday I discussed um comments that Crimean residents had given to the Daily Telegraph in London following the announcement by the Crimean authorities of the state of emergency that they had declared in Crimea following the drone attacks the Ukrainian drone attacks intended to disrupt fuel fuel supplies and energy distribution in Crimea.
And I suspect much to the Daily Telegraph's frustration, the residents in Crimea also seem to convey a sense of understanding and calm for the whole situation despite the obvious pressure that they were under. Well, that's my assessment. I know of no convincing argument that says the contrary. But note again the weight Putin is placing on the fact that what he describes as the terrorist war is is now essentially all that Ukraine and its western backers to whom he puts responsibility for what is happening. It is all that
they have left. And again, if you think that this announcement by the FSB about the elimination of Colonel Fakrif is a coincidence that it is unconnected to this speech of Putin's. I dis I would disagree. I think it's intended to convey to the Russian audience, look, we're not just sitting back. We are indeed hitting back.
 we are hitting back at the very people who in Kiev are responsible for these things is as much in other words a message to people in Russia and to people within the United Russia party as it is a message to Ukrainians and to the West. But it also mirrors Putin's language that if the Ukrainians and the West want a dirty war, then they have got one.
 that if they want to operate in this kind of way, then the Russians will indeed give as good as they've as good as they get. They will act ruthlessly and determinately. And as I said previously, they probably just won't just confine themselves to the territory of Russia. So anyway, that's what I wanted to say about these two very interesting pieces of news.
 As I said, I don't believe that it is a coincidence that these two things have come out at the same time and they do suggest a shift in the direction of the war. Now, in the meantime, the war itself continues in the same way that it did previously. The Russians continue to announce, the Russian Defense Ministry continued to announce throughout the day and gave further information about the clearing of further apartment buildings in Constantin.
To repeat again, I believe that both of these places are under Russian control. I think that what is going on in both of these two towns is that the Russians, as they regularly do, delay the formal announcement of the capture of these two places until they have examined every part of the town, tracked down any Ukrainian stragglers, uh removed and dismantled any left behind boot, booby traps.
 And by the way, once these two towns, Constantin and Leman, have been captured, then the Russians will start to deploy more forces into both of these places. Both towns will become useful staging posts for further Russian advances in the Dombas area. And there's been another interesting article in Bloomberg talking about the military situation.
 It talks about how the town of Kamatsk, the core town within the Slavans Kamatsk connibation, the only part of Donbass still under Ukrainian control. how that town is now coming under increasing pressure. Bloomberg reports correctly that there is no fighting so far going on within Kamatsk itself. But the fact that Bloomberg is talking about the threat to Kamatsk again highlights the fact that there is an overall deterioration of the situation in Donbass and the pressure on Kamatsk and Slavansk is certain to intensify over the next few weeks. And by the way,
there have been further reports of further fighting in other places. The Russian Defense Ministry has announced the capture of two settlements on what I would call the eastern Oreov front lines. It looks as if the town, the small town of Pakovski, which is actually located in Nebraov region, but which is important in order to try to defend the supply roads from the north to Oreov.
 that another settlement close to Bakarovski has been captured by the Russians and that the Russians are now close to an encirclement and presumably an attack on Pakovsk as well. So fighting continues to take place there and on the western side of Orov General Tlinsk's group of forces Neper also appears to be active moving closer to Oreov from the west even as the Ukrainians for their part try to put pressure on General Tiplinsk's forces um in the area close to the Nepa.
 Um I expect that we're going to start to see very rapid movements in the Oraov area over the course of July and August. Just saying. But anyway, there's a lot of fighting, as I said, going on in Zaporo region and to say it simply, the Ukrainians appear to be short of reserves. They've concentrated significant numbers of their forces in Zaporia region.
As I expected, Russian advances towards the city of Sunumi in the north in northeastern Ukraine have triggered a significant redeployment of Ukrainian troops to try to protect Sunumi from an imminent Russian attack. All that is very well. It might stabilize the situation or slow the Russian advance on Sunumi for a time, but given the manpower shortages that the Ukrainians now face, inevitably if the Ukrainians concentrate troops to defend Sunumi, which I think they have to do given the threat to Kiev that the fall of Sunumi would cause,
then they're having to redeploy troops from other places and draw down their reserves. And that is something it seems to me that they cannot really afford to do. Anyway, so that's a very brief summary of a very complicated situation on the front lines, but to repeat again, the Russians indeed are advancing.
All the best observers of the war confirm this. Um, exactly as Putin said, the pressure on the Ukrainians across the front lines continues to grow and the major battle in Donbass continues to come. The Ukrainians again yesterday launched further drone and missile strikes on Russia. They again launched flamingo missile strikes towards an industrial facility of some kind in the city of Wolgrad Stalingrad as it once used to be.
They also launched large numbers of drones against Russia. There is a growing consensus that these drone attacks being launched against Russian territory are becoming less effective. I mentioned this in a previous program. Um, it's possible that the Ukrainians have more up their sleeve that we don't know about, but that does seem to be the situation at the moment.
 Um, the Russians, by contrast, against a situation where Ukraine's air defenses have essentially collapsed, have now been focusing on destroying Ukrainian gas filling stations across eastern Ukraine and oil storage facilities across eastern Ukraine. in what looks like a clear attempt to destroy Ukrainian logistics in eastern Ukraine.
And they have also been busy attacking Ukrainian um facilities along their railway system. and in particular they have been busy destroying Ukrainian trains and Ukrainian locomotives. The point about Ukrainian locomotives is that Ukraine uses the wider Russian gorge. It's Ukrainian railway lines in other words of are wider than those in the west.
so that the West is not in a position to replace locomotives, train engines in other words, that are destroyed, which is a problem for Ukraine if the railway system starts to be significantly degraded because like the Russians, the Ukrainians rely on their railway system for their logistics and their big troop movements.
 So anyway, the Russians have been busy at this. I remember early on in the war a Ukrainian railway official saying that despite um Russian attempts in the first months of the war, not a single ammunition train or troop deployment train that Ukraine had had been destroyed by the Russians. The Russians now seem able to destroy trains and locomotives.
regularly and in the last few weeks there have been reports of them doing so practically every day. How much what the totality of the damage that's been done is I of course can't say. Now lastly in the war the Russians have also claimed that two strikes that they carried out on two Ukrainian airfields have resulted in the destruction of three Ukrainian Mig 29 fighter jets.
 These, by the way, are not leftovers from the original Ukrainian air force that existed before the start of the special military operation. They were MIG 29s provided to Ukraine, as I understand it, by Ukraine's NATO allies. Many NATO states in Eastern Europe continued to operate MIG 29s even after they joined NATO as a legacy inheritance from the time when they used to be part of the Warsaw Treaty Organization, the Warsaw backed.
 Anyway, um this this destruction of these three Mig 29s appears to have been at least partially confirmed by the Ukrainians themselves. And here I'm going to give site a speculative theory of my own. Recently there was a few about a week ago there was a Ukrainian missile strike on an industrial facility in the western Russian town of Varones and there was some suggestions that the missile used was a British storm shadow.
Adow later there were suggestions that it wasn't stor a storm shadow at all but a dirty dagger cruise missile which is a cruise missile recently developed and placed in production in the United States. Now the point is that both the Storm Shadow and the Dirty Dagger are air launched missiles. The Storm Shadow, which is a largeish missile, as far as I know, is not launched from Mig 29s.
It's mostly launched by Su Hoy 24s by Ukraine except that apparently the Russians have destroyed Ukraine's entire fleet of Su Hoy 24s. Macron recently supplied to Ukraine Mirage 2000s and apparently these are the aircraft that Ukraine now uses to carry out storm shadow strikes but we haven't actually seen many of these and apparently for all sorts of reasons which I don't really want to speculate about because I don't know but it seems The Ukrainians aren't very happy with the Mirage 2000s.
The Dirty Dagger cruise missile, however, does appear to be smaller, significantly smaller. And I wonder whether it is launched against targets. it can be launched from the MiG 29. And maybe this these three Mig 29s that the Russians have just destroyed were the MiG 29s that participated in the recent missile strike against the industrial facility in Varones.
just a guess, but I think an entirely plausible one. And well, as I've said many times, I don't see why I shouldn't engage in the odd piece of guess work on my own channel. Anyway, put that aside. That is the overall situation in the conflict. Now, the dirty war is escalating. The Russians are retaliating.
 They've just announced that they've killed this Ukrainian intelligence officer. More Ukrainian intelligence officers are going to be targeted in time. There was an article in Reuters which spoke about the pressure Putin supposedly is under from Russian hardliners to escalate the war and to take steps to eliminate Ukrainian political leaders up to and including ing Zilinski himself.
Writers reported this as if it was something relatively new. It did admit that there had been these demands before, but it claims that these demands have now become more shrill and more urgent following the Ukrainian drone attacks on Russia. Well, there may be some truth to that, but to repeat again, uh there have been demands in Russia for action by the Russians to kill Zalinski, kill other Ukrainian officials, attack decisionmaking centers in Kiev, um kill um other Ukrainian and Western officials in Russia, in Ukraine rather, blow up
the NEPA bridges. is those sort of demands have been made by many of the same people mentioned by Reuters well basically since the start of the special military operation. So there's absolutely nothing new actually in the fact that these demands are being made. But perhaps just possibly Reut is right and that the pressure for such an escalation is not only growing but that the Kremlin itself is becoming more receptive to it.
After all, the Kremlin may feel that given Western refusal to recognize Russian red lines, um the time has indeed come to take tougher retaliatory action and the confirmation of Russia's role in the killing of Colonel Fakarf. Well, might indeed point that way. Anyway, there it is. Um, we will see what if anything the Russians choose to do in the future.
But Putin about the war is right. People like Sergey Polletif writing about the war from Russia are also right. The situation on the battlefields continues to point as it has consistently done since the fall of Davka in February 2024 towards an eventual Russian military victory. In fact, that victory, the key of which is the conquest of Donbass, has never been closer than it is now, with the Russians now pressing on Kamatsk itself
as discussed by Bloomberg. Now, I'm going to finish this runup about Ukrainian news by discussing some information that's now circulating in parts of the Western media about the meeting, the recent meeting of the European Council. In other words, the leadership of the European Union. Because according to some of these reports, the drone offensive against Russia, which has triggered such euphoria among some Western leaders and in some Western media outlets.
There's an extraordinary article by the Financial Times journalist Martin Sanbu who has been one of the most obsessive advocates of escalation against Russia basically ever since the conflict began. And well, I mean, if you go to his article in the Financial Times today, you will see the extraordinary degree of euphoria that the latest drone developments, both the drone strikes within Russia and the success, as he believes, of Ukrainian drone operations on the front line.
 the euphoria is engendering with him. But anyway, um it seems that not everybody within the European Union agrees because some leaders and we are not told which leaders apparently expressed doubts about this whole drone offensive. They wondered whether it is indeed achieving the effects that are being said, whether it really is doing the kind of economic damage that some people have been reporting or whether on the contrary what the drone offensive is doing is making people in Russia more angry
and hardening resolve there. Now about the economic and other damage. I've already discussed this this but for the record there's been a good piece by Marat Khulin again looking at Russian oil exports and countering by the way another article in Bloomberg and Hyulin provides significant amount of information about the actual situation with Russian oil exports and according to Kyoulin and by the way this is my understanding is that this is actually true.
 Just to say Russia has been exporting oil in record amounts over the last few weeks and despite an apparent cancellation of the licenses by the United States granted for the export of Russian oil. Russian oil exports continue basically unabated and Russian receipts from these oil exports are apparently at an extremely high level just to say.
So anyway, the attacks on the refineries, the attacks on the economy, the are not having the effect that many people say about the question of resolve. I I'm not really able to say my sense in from my own visit in Russia is that the mood there was pretty tough when I went there in June last year to attend the conference in St.
 Petersburg and that it remains tough at pretty much the same level today. I didn't get the sense that it had hardened further still or that there was any wobbles in the opposite direction. Um, but anyway, apparently some people within the European Union, again, we're not told who they are, do wonder about the full wisdom of this strategy.
Now I am relieved to hear this but I would say that actually the situation is worse than they in some ways imagine because given what the Kremlin is talking about the dirty war given the announcement of the assassination of Colonel I think we have we are closer than we have ever been to a situation where we start to see the Russians taking counter measures against possible Ukrainian targets in Europe itself.
And of course, it was Putin himself who just a few days ago, as I discussed in this program, said that if there are missile or drone strikes on Russia launched from sites on European territory, then the Russians will attack those sites. And of course, Lavrov, for his part, was careful to remind the Europeans that the Russian warnings to European diplomats in Kiev, that Kiev is no longer safe, that the Russians will be conducting strikes against the decision-making centers in Kiev.
 Lavro was careful to remind the Europeans that those warnings are still valid and everything that I've been learning over the last two weeks about the progress of the Arashnik missile program also points in that direction. We are quite likely to see a significant escalation of the war over the next few months, not just the ground war with breakthroughs in Donbass, but the dirty war and with strikes against Kiev and with all sorts of other things as well.
Anyway, let me now turn to the situation in the Persian Gulf. Now, these latest strikes and counter strikes by the Americans and the Iranians against each other do indeed, as some commentators say, put the entire ceasefire between the United States and Iran in doubt. They also must ultimately create doubt about the movement of shipping through the straight of Hormuz, though I've not yet heard any really reliable information about what is exactly happening at the present time with shipping moving through the straight of Hormuz.
 Um, but what they show is that the conflict between Iran and the United States and Iran and Israel too, incidentally, are very far from over. Over the course of today, the Iranians appeared to up their demands with respect to Israel and its operations in Lebanon. The Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman said that what was needed now was a timetable for a Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon.
And the pattern of this conflict up to this time is that when the Iranians float such an idea as they're now doing, it then becomes an Iranian demand and the fighting escalates between Iran and the United States and the situation in the Strait of Hormuz. deteriorates until that Iranian demand is finally satisfied.
Now, that is going to put enormous pressure on the United States and you can already see it in some of the statements that President Trump has again started to make. He's again talking about destroying Iran. um unless the Iranians basically does as he tells them. He's been talking like this many times and he tends to start withdrawing into that kind of language when he feels himself to be under pressure.
 The situation with oil reserves remains catastrophic. The United States needs to get oil moving through the straight of Hormuz, not just sporadically, but consistently. Oil prices over the last couple of days have fallen back to their pre 28th February levels. Again, I suspect this has been helped along by someone's intervention in the financial markets.
 That's my view. I can't prove it, but that's my guess. But obviously if the ceasefire completely breaks down, if theou becomes redundant, if it fails, visibly fails, if we see a return to war, then oil prices are going to start to rise once again. And of course they will do so against a backdrop of disastrously depleted US reserves, oil reserves.
 So you can understand why Trump is getting angry. Frightened people often express themselves with anger and it seems to me that that is exactly what President Trump has been doing. Now, all of this, however, again illustrates what a fragile and in some ways unsatisfactory document theou was. The Americans made all sorts of massive concessions to the Ukra Iranians in that document.
Concessions which of course they never intended to fulfill. The Israelis were not part of theou anyway and clearly don't feel morally bound by it. They continue to insist on operations in Lebanon and they continue to put heavy pressure on the Lebanese government which is divided and a faction of which is sympathetic more sympathetic to Israel as it appears than to Hezbollah and which has accordingly agreed what Hezbollah calls a surrender deal with Israel which Hezbollah for its part is rejecting.
So theou fundamentally has settled nothing and the Iranians themselves I suspect are starting to understand this that the only practical effect of theou was to reopen the straight of hormuse that was the only reason why the Americans signed it at all. And of course, the reopening of the Straight of Hormuz at this particular time, what it does is weaken Iran's leverage.
So what is going to happen? There is still no news about foreign minister Lakshi traveling to China. There is little information about what exactly it is that the Iranians are going to do. But to say it very straightforwardly, if the Iranians decide that theou track has failed and that it's time to renew the conflict with the United States, to restart, not just restart attacks on American bases, but to escalate attacks on American bases.
 If that is what the Iranians decide, if that is what the IRGC has already decided and some of its statements appear to suggest that, well, I for one would not be surprised how that would play internationally. What China and Russia and Saudi Arabia and all of these countries think about this. I am not sure, but this conflict in the Persian Gulf, as I've said many times, is far from ended.
I did think that the truce, which is all that theou amounts to, would probably last for some time. I doubted that the Americans themselves would want to break it by resuming hostilities. I', as I admit, not considered the possibility that the Iranians might decide that it wasn't working for them and might decide to walk away from it.
 But anyway, it does seem that we may be heading in that direction, in which case it's not impossible that we will again see a resumption of the conflict in the Middle East. Anyway, we shall see. Um, overall I still feel that with Trump's back to the wall being what it is, he will pull every stop to stop the fighting and to make sure that the straight of Hormuz remains open.
But we will see what happens. Anyway, this is where I'm going to finish today's program. Let me remind you again, you can find all our programs on our various platforms, Locals, Rumble X, and Substack. You can support our work via Patreon and Subscribe Star, and by going to our shop links under this video.
 Last but not least, if you've liked this video, please remember to tick the like button and to check your subscription to this channel. That's me for today. More from me soon. Have a very good day.
