It took nearly two months for the United States and Iran to get to a memorandum of understanding that both would accept, both would sign, and then start the negotiating process. So, that was hard, but at least we got that that done. Now, as we say, it's an understatement to say the devil's in the details of taking even the words in thatou and then converting those into a negotiated settlement to actually end the war.
 And man, are we already seeing lots of headwinds against that, not even just from the different parties, but from the language itself and who meant what by what was written. And uh there's already, as you're going to see here on the US side, attempts to rewrite the terms and to change them already because what a surprise, a lot of people don't like them who loved the war.
 We'll get to all that in a minute. Uh but uh we're going to have to with us today back again is Patrick Kennson who is a journalist and geopolitical analyst with a lot of experience uh in the Middle East and especially in Iran. He is the founder of the news analyst website 21st centurywire.com and host of the Sunday wire show.
 Patrick as always welcome back to our show. >> It's great to be with you Danny. Well, it is and and listen, I'm really grateful here because you you have insights that uh not a lot of others have because of your many many years of covering this region and I remember you went to Thran even before this war started.
 So, you kind of had a your finger on the pulse at that time. And I'm just kind of interested in seeing what you have felt over time here in uh and we'll just start with this right here with the signing of theou. Uh, President Trump has already a couple of times tried to imply that, well, he didn't mean that interpretation of theou.
 The Iranian side has said, well, here's our interpretation and you might as well be talking English and Farsy. How do you see that so far? >> Well, it's it's confusing because and I this was the problem with this process to begin with. Uh, because the Iranians would uh release a document or a statement and then the United States would uh, you know, interpret or sort of publicize their version of that.
 you started to see this divergence between what both sides were putting up as terms uh for what was called a deal before but now finally it's like after a week or two people are finally calling it a memorandum of understanding that took a while but eventually they came to uh their senses on this and and I think the the that's what you're seeing uh in in Switzerland is this lobbing from the United States side this constant lobbying it's like they're trying to put ideas out there into the public sphere sphere uh hoping that they'll somehow
get traction and it's going to somehow move the goalposts or change uh the negotiations. But really uh Iran's been very sort of resolute and steadfast uh in what their terms have been really since really back to April. Uh there's not a whole lot of difference there. But the United States is trying to create constantly trying to create wiggle room.
They tried to change facts on the ground through the blockade. Uh little uh attacks, various uh attacks against Iran over the last sort of four weeks and really didn't do anything to change the fundamentals of the situation. And and JD Vance is there in Switzerland. I have no idea why he's there and not the secretary of state, which I think is somewhat strange and says a lot about this administration's sort of disorganization and unprofessionalness when it comes to diplomacy.
 Uh but uh but because you have a politician and not a civil servant or a cabinet civil stroke civil servant, uh JD Vance is very political. So he's grandstanding right now. He's he's this is sort of the pre- campaign for his 2028 uh presidential run. He's doing all the podcast circuits. It's kind it's kind of obvious.
 We've been in politics for a while. We've seen all this sort of stuff going that that's kind of what JD Vance is doing. But he's kind of doing a disservice uh in some ways to the negotiations because he's saying some crazy things and he's putting some ideas out there that he's telegraphing what they're what they might want, you know, or Trump's like classic deal or whatever. He had one statement.
 I don't know if you have it. We said this is a classic Trump deal. We're going to do this. We're going to I don't know, steal the Iranian assets. uh you know, are we going to we're going to take the money that we've frozen and use it to buy soya beans uh from American farmers. >> Yeah. Yeah. Actually, we do.
 And in fact, you you you jumped you preempted me a little bit here. I do want to talk about that because that this particular soundbite we're going to play here and Gary, it'll be the one called frozen assets. uh you mentioned the difference of definition of what the s singular emir memorandum was of understanding was signed by both sides and one of those is on the issue of frozen assets because you have the Iranian side said and they've been saying this for a long time we talked about this you and I on this show is that that has to be upfront
because they have no trust in us because of all the things that have happened really since Trump was inaugurated the first time with the getting rid of the JCPOA and all the wars and assassinations since that time. And so they said, "Before we do anything, there's going to have to be upfront sanctions relief and unfrozen assets."
 Well, JD Vance here talked about and used a different word that was associated with that. And you'll hear it about a hundred times here, the word if. >> We wanted to make sure that we set up a process where if if we ever unfreeze Iranian assets, we can ensure that Iranian money goes to help the people of Iran and not to fund terrorism.
 So Jared Kushner actually came up with a very interesting solution with the Qataris where basically again if there is any frozen Iranian assets that are unfrozen then we have approval over that process. The Qataris have approval over that process and then the money would actually go to buy American soy, American corn and American wheat for the benefit of the Iranian people.
What Jared and theQataris and the entire team accomplished is to me a classic Trump deal where if Iranian assets are ever unfrozen, they're going to go to make American farmers richer and to feed the Iranian people. That's a very very good and very classic Trump deal. >> You know, I don't remember you and I have not heard one word from anybody in Iran so far to validate that they view it the same way.
 What say you? That's that's the sort of thing that it that's that's the only thing classic Trump about this is inserting little caveats and wedges into and moving the goalpost during negotiations. That's classic Trump and that's what's upended so many other negotiations before because this president has proven with his I think incompetent and inexperienced team that they don't know how to do diplomacy.
They don't know how to get a binding agreement. they can they'll never get an accord and they will never get a treaty this administration. So from that point of view they're they're hugely inferior to the Obama administration. At least the Obama administration's professional and they have professional diplomats and this is the result this is the result of this kind of uh rank mediocrity uh with no real diplomats sending like business associates from Long Island and your son-in-law. This is where it ends. It's
it's what what JD Van the fact he's telegraphing this means there's going to be automatic rejection by the Iranians. Does he realize this? This isn't a junior achievement like presentation in high school where you s showing what you've got in your project. No, you keep these things under your lid if you want to negotiate.
 You're dealing with countries here. JD Vance is 41 years old, zero international political experience, and the president has put him up uh to basically frontr run these very very important negotiations. Where's the secretary of state? What this is not a serious administration. And I'll tell I'll I'll tell you why this should be rejected by Americans.
Because what Trump's doing here, what JD Vance, this brilliant idea by Jared Kushner, it's corporate welfare. That normally the US government would give subsidies to those soy farmers that were devastated by Trump's uh China tariff debacle. That's what that's that's who got affected, these same farmers.
 and he's wanting to use Iranian frozen assets to bail out Trump and the Trump administration for the absolute disaster of their tariff uh you know just the worst possible result visav China. That's that's all this is corporate welfare. They want to get Iran to do the subsidies rather than the US government. I mean that's it's kind of unbelievable.
It's in a way it's embarrassing and I'm going to make a criticism here and I know everybody wants JD Vance to be successful just because the hor the the horror of the Trump of the Trump presidency is just too much even to comprehend on a certain level. But you have to pull him up on these things. This vapid confidence of you're like very confident talking there.
 He's very confident but it's it's very shallow what he's saying. There's no depth to it and what he's saying is just so unbelievably ridiculous. and you know people should pull him up on this because th this is going to be a problem for negotiations and that's not the only thing that he said that is just it shows that he has a zero understanding of the situation economics uh state craft and also uh Lebanese and Iranian uh politics and what's and history and so you need to know these things. That's why you have seasoned
diplomats doing this type of a job and not like uh neopight politicians that just did two years in the Senate and all of a sudden they're on the campaign trail and now Trump's just sent him to be a face. You need more than a face. You need people who are really skilled technocrats with like 20 or 30 years experience.
 You know, Chaz Freeman's of the world. These are the types of people that can pull off what I call a diplomatic highwire act because that's what it takes. The US started this war with Israel. They are not the victors. This is not the vict signed a surrender document in Versailles which is very embarrassing. Uh especially choosing that that that location which Emanuel Macarron was like a cheshure cat.
 Did you watch that? >> I did. I did. Yeah. Yeah. Trump was all mesmerized by the gold in place of it and he had no concept of the history but neither did anybody else on President Trump's team which did him a disservice with that. it, you know, and the Europeans got one back at Trump on that. And you know, he should have a competent advisors that would have recognized the optics of that. Exactly.
>> And who are his adviserss? And JD Vance doesn't have competent adviserss because you can see he's he's he's totally uninformed on, you know, the actual politics and geopolitics of the region. He's just like grabbing talking points. But he's a very he's a confident uh what I would call situational conversationalist.
 He's very skilled in that. He's very confident in like kind of bouncing around through talking points and conversations. Very animated and likable in interviews, but there's like it's nice house. Nobody home. There's nothing there. There's no depth to it. And uh so who are the advisers to this administration? Who's is it Sebastian Gorka? He overlooked that one that we learned in eighth grade history class. Yeah.
 Germany, the Kaiser signed the most humiliating surrender document in history in the Palace of Versailles after World War I. I mean, it's not a good look, but what it says, and I'm not just making fun of uh the Trump administration, Danny. I'm just saying that that that what that demonstrates is the kind of rank incompetence of this administration that they are really not serious, you know, in terms of uh you know, foreign policy and geopolitics and and and and so forth.
 And the Trump can't claim that this is fake news. He can't like attack the media for this. There's no oneliner that's going to rescue this. This is basically set in stone and Europeans are making jokes about it all week. So, I mean, it's not for America, who's a world superpower. It's really not what you want to be doing. That's all I'm going to say.
 And JD Vance should have paid attention in eighth grade history class as well because he would have told the president, "Don't do it." But I'm wondering, does anybody know anything in this administration? I wonder sometimes. >> Yeah. I I I wonder too. We're in just a second here. I'm going to get to the what is really point number one even more important than than uh that issue right there is as big as it is.
 Um I I I was checking real quick even while we were on the while you were talking just a second here to see if there had been any updates from the Iranian side from any of their number of uh state-run uh information agencies whatever talking about did they actually agree that the US could call the shots on how the frozen funds were going to be used etc.
So far, nothing at all. No, no denunciations or no comments. But there was this one uh from uh Galibbau here. Uh he is headed to this is just a couple of hours ago. He is headed to Oman. Iran's chief negotiator left Thran for Moscat minutes ago to set up and hold talks in the Sultan of Oman enhancing bilateral cooperation and joint efforts to stabilize the Iranian arrangements for managing the strait of Hormuz.
 Now, President Trump has been beside himself of saying no. In fact, he put out a true social maybe yesterday saying that the Iranian side is not going to have not gonna be able to charge fees for 60 days and they're not going to be able to charge fees after 60 days. And so far, every Iranian official I've talked to or read has said, "Oh, we definitely will starting with day one of 61.
 We're going to be doing that." And now here he is going and working with Oman to get that done. Is this going to be something that the US can negotiate away from the Iranians? So, you know, when first of first of all, Trump says, >> "Well, thanks for that, Gary. I see that on the screen there." >> Uh, I think Vance was alluding to Trump saying he's got a 60-day option.
 After that, he can do whatever he wants. This is not a Florida time share deal. This is an international supposedly international binding agreement. What are you talking about? 60-day option and you can do whatever you want. This is back to the real problem. What Trump calls a deal. The reason he uses the term deal because it's so amorphous and there's no structure to it and it can change from minute to minute that you can never prove whether it actually worked or not or whether you abided by it or not or whether it it was broken or
not. And that's the whole point of using a vague term deal when you drill down to specifics and we're talking about international relations here between uh uh sovereign states between governments. This is not these aren't deals. These are very very calculated. You have a memorandum understanding which is a uh basically an agreement that both parties are going to agree to negotiate going forward. That's all it is.
 And it's laying out a pre-framework. Not not not not any kind of a binding framework. It's pre-negotiations. The real negotiations haven't started yet. But they have to carry on with this theater. Uh the way the US comes with all this like massive entourage putting on this big show. You've got JD Vance grandstanding campaigning for 2028 already. It's embarrassing.
 But at the end of the day, the Iranians haven't agreed to JD Vance, I think, even said something crazy. He said that, "Oh, now the Iranians have agreed to allow uh International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors into the country." And that's not something they were doing before, but thanks to President Trump's, you know, strength and whatever, that that that has not been agreed.
 No, they they emphatically said that's the case. They said, "No, we did not agree to anything like that." >> So, are you cons I mean, I'm concerned. Are you concerned you have the vice president who's supposedly like in charge of these negotiations telling things that that huge that are completely false? I mean, that kind of concerns me that they're the US don't actually have a serious team.
 They're not doing any serious work with this. They're just grandstanding getting photo ops, uh, getting, uh, good sound bites for the for the press. And, uh, the other thing that was really, Danny, I have to say this, this was just a bridge too far. JD Vance said, "Well, the president uh, didn't really threaten the Iranians very much.
" No, no, the Iranians threatened us, and the president's going to respond. When we're threatened, they're going to respond first. and he's he's covering for his boss in the most kind of sophomoric way. The Iranians did not threaten the United States. That's a lie. That's a lie. But Trump threatened, he threatened to uh t take uh take over Straits of Hormuz, charge tolls, take take Iran's oil, and use the tolls to to you know pay for the US military operation there.
 then threatened to kill the negotiators, threatened to wipe out the rest of Iran, uh the the country. He did he did all of these things in the middle of high level negotiations almost like trying to sabotage the negotiations. So that's like not nothing. And and you know, these aren't hollow threats. The United States has done it already.
 They have killed the Iranian head of state. So you know, it's it's all a big joke for America and for people in Washington. They just don't. This is not real for them. For for Iran, for Iran, it's very real. Their head of state was killed during negotiations in a sneak attack by the United States and Israel. That's serious.
 So, they're not going to trust the United States going forward. So, I don't think the US is doing themselves any favors by having their sort of, you know, uh, uh, inexperienced 41-year-old vice president telling lies at major on the world stage. provable lies and I've got others uh I think that he told as well during all that but he's just kind of it's meaningless.
 It's like Trump is saying just flood the zone with talking points and then let's see what sticks. You know that this is not how it's going to go. The Iranians are very very very clear on what this is the same conversation with Ukraine, Danny. You know, the Russians have been very super clear, like concrete the whole time, and America's just been wavering around uh totally chaotic and inconsistent.
 And what's the result? >> Nothing. No deal. >> This will end up the same if if they keep on like this.
