>> Well, yeah, I'm not one of them either. I I just it's puzzles me. But u Okay. Well, let's move on to the bigger because the biggest area not not just Sunumi, not Kyansk as important as they are, although the Sunumi is pretty important because of its location and that would be near the Russian army to to Kiev.
 So that put more pressure but really the the anchor of the entire eastern front is in the Slavian promistors elomeration and that Putin gave a lot of interest to that one. The third army of the south grouping is moving toward the city of Slavansk at good pace. It entered the settlement of Nikolai about 8 to 9 kilometers remain to Slavansk itself.
 The offensive is proceeding successfully in 15 sectors. Every day our troops are advancing in this direction. >> Now, what do you make, Gary, if you could put that map up as well, the the Slavian chromator map. Uh what do you make of of the fact that Putin is going through and given this very detailed and by the way, I don't know if you noticed, but he doesn't he's not given from any kind of uh notes or anything else.
 is all extemporaneous and he has a lot of detail to include what units are where uh which villages they're they're at. I mean that this was actually pretty impressive to me that he has that level of knowledge of detail. But the fact that he's coming out now this is to my knowledge maybe it's happened before but I've never seen him come out and give this kind of detail on a on a section by section of the front and focus it right here on the Slavian chromatours.
 Uh first of all can you tell us why this area is so important? Well, these three cities that are in that area that's shaded in yellow are the so-called fortress cities of Ukraine. This is the in in theory the last line of serious defense for the Ukrainian state against uh the Russians. They've been working to build this area up for 15 14 15 16 years.
 Now, the the other thing I would call everybody's attention to is to go down to the lower right hand corner and you see this infamous place called Bachmoot. And some of your viewers will remember what a terribly bloody battle that was. And that was an important turning point because once the Russians did seize it at cost, uh they opened up the way to go to where they are now.
 This is the last major hurdle as far as Russian general staff is concerned. Once these fortress cities fall, there is really no logistical infrastructure north, south, east, west, nothing is going to survive. Uh, you know, on the Ukrainian side. In other words, this is a what's the right I don't want to say center of gravity.
It's very clouds of more than that. It's more than just a center of gravity. It's a serious open wound. It's not going to happen immediately, but I can only begin to imagine the firepower that will be poured into that place to utterly obliterate it before the Russian forces move into it. >> And what do you think psychologically what what would they especially as you point out they've had this from uh this a lot of this goes back to the 2014 civil war that began after that where some of these construction start and
certainly during the mint periods forward uh this was turned into these fortress cities. If the Ukraine side lost them, what impact might that have on the remainder of the Ukrainian army? >> Well, the Ukrainian arm is in pretty bad shape as it is. I'm sure that'll crush morale and there will be a mass flight to the west.
 Uh I don't know of any other defensive lines that are out there that are going to present much resistance. So, we'll have to wait and see. I mean, you know, the tough thing on this battlefield is that once you've been identified and you're targeted, you have a choice. You can either die where you are or you can get up and try to run away and die.
 In other words, it's a per it's a terrible situation. There's no escape. And that's that's what you want if you're attacking. And that's the position the Russians are in right now. So the people that are down in those fortress cities, they've had it. Their lives are uh you know going to run out very shortly.
 Now having said all that, this is important question. You say well what's the larger impact in 1917 towards the end when the when the government changed hands Kinsky was pushed out and in came the Boleviks the Bolsheviks then decided they wanted to negotiate with the Imperial German general staff and so the German general staff met with them in a town called Brelatk in what used to be eastern Poland or very very western Russia.
 Anyway, Preslatk was a site and the Boleviks tried to tried to negotiate for time. In other words, they weren't terribly serious at the time. A General Hofflan who was in charge called Ludenorf who was the chief of staff and said, you know, these these criminals were talking to, which is what they were, murderers, boleviks, and so forth.
 Uh they're wasting our time, and we we need to get this over with. And Ludenorf said fine. And then he sent 400,000 troops in the direction of Moscow. All of a sudden, Lenin sends Trosky to breast Latasque, tells Trosky to sign whatever the Germans put in front of him and stop the war because he knew he would not survive and neither would the Bolevik revolution if the Germans moved on Moscow.
 Now, I think that's something that that Putin needs to learn from. He needs to understand the value of what the Germans did in 1918 in January. Uh because remember those 400,000 troops were ultimately moved to the west. As it turned out, they couldn't tip the balance in Germany's favor because of us. We entered the war late. We came in in 1918. The rest is history.
 But he needs to understand the value of saying being serious to say, "Okay, enough's enough. March on Kief. Head for Kief. Be done with this." Now, if he wants to go to Odessa instead, that's fine. Caroff, it it's a non- entity. You can keep it under observation, but you've got to get to the jugular.
 You've got to demonstrate that you can do it. And that is really the message that he should be getting from everybody in the West who's essentially say, "See, you're not strong. See, you can't do anything. You're you're failing. all we have to do is keep supplying these uh you know Ukrainian gangsters with whatever they want. You're never coming.
 Well, he's got to change that perception. He's got to do do now what the Germans did in January 1918. If he does, he'll win. If he doesn't, this will drag on. Now it it could be that some of that message is getting through at least to the Ukrainian side because there have been reports out mainly leaked uh by President Putin himself that Zalinsky has profered a couple of new opportunities says hey how's about this? What if we just we can keep the war going in these four blasts that you say you're going to annex and all that kind
of stuff but then we'll stop shooting long range at you. you'll stop shooting long range at us and we'll stop fighting in the sunumi and the karkov and the depot patrol scaras all that so we'll just keep it on those four what do you say and of course the Russians mocked that just like they did when the request for unconditional ceasefire was offered about two years ago they said no we're not going to do that and then uh Dmitri Pescov in an interview this morning addressed the bigger issue of where the Russians are on the negotiations
>> our position has not changed It was set out two years ago by our head of state in a speech at the Foreign Ministry of Foreign Affairs before its senior staff. It is well known to the Kiev regime and it is well known to the US negotiators. It is quite consistent. It it's those terms, Doug, that you and I have been talking about since June 2024.
 The June 2024 lines, which has never changed, which is the four Oblasts, demilitarization, denazification, and uh the the Russians get protections for their people inside there, etc. Um, and they said it hadn't changed. And so, if we get all of that stuff we're asking for, you withdraw from all those areas is fine.
 So, if the Russians haven't changed in all that time, does that tell you that they're a little bit more confident about what may be coming next? I can't say. I would hope so. But I think the the bottom line for the Russians is that this government in Kief, which is not legitimate, not popularly elected, is more oppressive than Stalin's government, more vicious, and more destructive.
 This government in Kief is not going to cooperate, accommodate anything that the Russians want unless they think they could go out of existence. And I go back to my example of Lenon. Why did Lenin throw caution to the wind, say sign whatever they want, and effectively give up a third of European Russia to the Germans and Austrians? Well, very clearly it was either do that or the Germans were going to come and exterminate him.
 It's a tragedy for the world that he didn't do that. Tragedy for Russia that he didn't do that. But the bottom line is that's Putin's lesson that he has to draw from history. They don't feel threatened. You know, I mean, what difference does it make to them how many of their countrymen die? What difference does it make to them how many people the CIA and the MI6 can round up, recruit, and pay for? What difference does it make to him? Uh, you know, what the what the human trafficking tragedy is in Ukraine? What difference does it make to them,
Silinski and his friends? How many people leave the country? Uh, you know, come to terms with the reality. You you're dealing with all the worst things you can imagine in Kief. So expecting them to take seriously anything you say short of either sign give it up or we will crush you is foolish. It's just foolish.
 And I hope that President Putin takes this on board. He needs to understand in 1918 the Germans were right and uh they got what they wanted as a settlement. That's what he needs to do. Same thing. You're not going to get there by sitting quietly and telling everybody, uh, well, we've got everything we need. We're ready to go, but we're concerned about a potential war with NATO.
 We don't want to risk that. Well, if you don't want a war with NATO, how about demonstrating that anybody that goes to war with Russia is insane. The best way to do that is to march west. You know, and ironically, Doug, it's not that I'm for Russia, but the this dithering that we've done and this allowing it to drag on all this time just has a profoundly higher death toll of Ukrainians, of Ukrainian citizens, and it's just destroying the country.
And for their sake, that's one of the reasons why I do wish this could get over uh by whatever means as soon as possible. Well, if it were possible to resurrect Ulissiz Srant and put him in Russian uniform, uh, I would recommend that Putin look into that because that would be Grant's answer, you know, unconditional surrender.
 Stop the nonsense or we're going to crush you. That's how we won the Civil War. People don't realize that, but the last year the Civil War was terrible. Very, very brutal. Had to be. And it wasn't because you Grant wanted it to be that way. He didn't particularly hate Southerners and he was a slave owner.
 Nobody knows this stuff. But he knew the war had to end. >> You know, that's what he understood. So maybe it's time to channel US Grant in Moscow. >> Well, we may find out pretty soon. We'll see what happens next.
