Vladimir Putin took time out of his schedule today to actually have a conversation, not just to answer questions, but to give an actual very detailed description of the battlefront as he sees it in the Ukraine war. There's been a lot of news here of late that Zalinsky has offered some new terms that he wants to limit the fighting only to the four oblasts that are that are part of what the the Russians said a couple years ago they want instead of the I think there's about seven or eight different ones where there's some
fighting going on now. and kind of have a sort of semi ceasefire. President Putin first of all just dismissed that, but then he went into some detail about how he sees each of the areas of the battlefield, the key ones, especially. The question is, is he just giving a good spin on things or are things really going as well for the Russians as he seems to think on the battlefront? There is literally nobody better we can try to have to assess the truth of this.
 and Colonel Douglas McGregor, uh, defense and foreign policy analyst specialist, uh, also a former, uh, Secretary of Defense expert or adviser and highly decorated combat veteran. Doug, welcome back to the show. >> Yeah, happy to be here. >> Well, well, listen, let's uh let's just get right into the the first one here because Putin's going to go and really he talked about a number of things, but there are three main areas he's talked about.
 one up in Sumi in the north uh one in Coupons in the northeast uh and then there's also the the kind of the center the the the big part of the entire eastern front is in the Slavian chromatours uh elomeration where they have kind of a fortress cities and so we're going to take a look at each one of those here's what he said first of all about the Sunumi area in the north let us start from the north namely with the north grouping let me remind you that the goal for Russian troops in the sunumi and vchan Hansk directions is to create a security zone along our
borders. This task was set after the AFU invasion of Korsk region and the continuing attacks on our border areas. The Ukrainian regime will pay for its crimes on Korsk soil with the loss of territory that we need to create a security zone in the border areas. a small city in my opinion more than 30,000 buildings about 10.
5 km remain to the city of Sunumi. >> Now this this one here sounds as much punitive as it does tactical in that he wants a security zone because it sounds like it's punishment for what happened in the Korsk region over about a seven or eightmonth period uh starting I think in 2024 2025. Uh how important is that for the the conduct of the war overall for Russia? >> Actually, I would argue it's more strategic.
 Uh there's a an understanding that's begun to set in with President Putin. I think that the territory has to be sufficient that there is no threat to Russian soil. So he's got to press further to the west and and further towards Kief. And effectively, that's what he's doing in Sunumi. So, it's not a question of, well, we're going to punish you by taking your territory away.
 No, we're going to guarantee our security by holding this territory and preventing you from using it as you wish. If you go back and remember that particular incident, the area into which the Ukrainians attacked was really devoid of people. You know, you had vast stretches of forest and woodland, very few villages, and almost no military strength whatsoever.
 So, it was a it was a great choice if you were trying to make a splash, which is what the Ukrainians have been doing now for the last three years, and try to create the illusion that somehow another you're winning something. There really wasn't much for them to win, and they expended a lot of manpower and capability for nothing.
 But the lesson was taken on board by the Russians. If we're going to get out of this war with what we fought for to begin with, we're going to have to secure it. And that means we're going to have to secure it with more territory than originally anticipated. >> And G, if you can bring up that uh that map of the the Sunumi area.
 You see that that Sumi kind of in the center in the golden area in the lower leftand corner of it. But you see all the red stuff. That's what Russia has taken. Initially they took a lot of that in the short time after they drove the Ukraine side out of the coup out of the Korsk oblast in Russia. Then they started moving in.
Then they kind of went I don't know if they went to ground but it didn't go very far. Now it seems that they're pushing again. Is this because Russia couldn't go further before or was it a decision that they made and now they're going to try to push further? >> Well, I think you're talking about moving large numbers of forces around over a very very large area.
 I mean, this is sort of like a front that stretches from, you know, Ohio all the way to the Atlantic coast. and you're making decisions about where you want to concentrate and how much force you want to apply in what area. At the same time, you want to rotate forces. You want to keep them fresh, well equipped.
 You want to replace losses and you also want to return to duty any wounded. Dan, when you go through this, this this is a major war in a scale that we haven't seen since 1945. This may not be as large as the uh Nazi Soviet war, but you have many of the same problems which really amount to distance, infrastructure, logistical support, uh surveillance, security, all of those things play into this.
 So, I I would not read this, as I said before, as punitive. I would see this as a strategically necessary move. And this is uh not the end by any stretch of the imagination as I think we'll find as we go through the rest of these. >> And so the the first real question, can the Ukraine side prevent Russia from moving all the way up and taking Sunumi, which he said I think is about uh 10 or 12 kilometers still further? >> No, of course not.
 that you know you'll hear these silly n well listen we should talk a little bit more about this later on but whenever you see the chorus of globalist voices academic political uh military whatever they happen to be in the west that that begin to come on with the nonsense well Ukraine is winning and this is now a golden opportunity to throw back the Russians well you know the situation is actually quite hopeless and the reason they've all been sent out there to say this nonsense is to hopefully convince Donald Trump to send $90 billion to Ukraine. And the real
tragedy here is that I think Trump is being more easily beguiled by the Europeans and this nonsense than he should be. This thing is over. The only thing that keeps it going and it's like handing somebody uh sort of cups of gasoline to put enough into the engine to keep it idling and it's not going to idle much longer.
 I mean, that's effectively the truth. But you know, you've got plenty of people in academia, people like Slot Cotkin and Ferguson and others who are only too happy to talk about, oh, the Ukrainians are winning. Or bring back Dave Petraeus, now the uh the newly anointed expert on drones and unmanned systems and how these >> self anointed, I'll say.
>> Well, whatever. You know, and of course, all these people are in this together. They're all benefiting from it financially and have been for several years. That's all. Uh, and they're lying to be blunt. >> So, so let me how do you uh explain people like uh and we'll we'll say General Ben Hodes and you you actually sent me a video the other day.
 I wish I had thought to cut it and put it in here, but he's like really going all out and saying, Mo, we have turned the tide. I mean, there has been a change of of inflection point and now things are going in Ukraine side and they're going to take back Crimea. What do you account for that? Uh, the Confederacy is marching on Gettysburg and will soon be on its way into Philadelphia.
I mean, that's that's about it. Uh, I think it's ridiculous nonsense. Here's the problem that Putin confronts. It's a huge problem, and I think he's finally beginning to come to terms with it. He should have much much earlier. And, you know, I I think very highly of the Russian leadership, but I think this is a serious problem.
 If you tell people the truth and say, "Look, there's no massive movement of Ukrainians anywhere. They're not regaining anything. They're taking terrible losses. The place is on its last legs. It's on the verge of collapse, and the Russians are advancing." Then they say, "Well, why haven't they just marched west at high speed?" Well, the president of Russia really doesn't want to conquer that territory.
 He doesn't want to administer it. uh he he's only interested in those areas that are historically Russian and are populated by Russians. Well, I don't believe that. I mean, if he had the ability to do this, he'd have done it. And because he hasn't done it, he doesn't have the capability. Now, stop and think about that.
 That's really the argument. It's like a lot of people standing on the on the ridge line, you know, uh yelling and screaming at people down in the valley. You you people down there have no guts at all. If you have any guts at all, come on up and get us. And at some point people in the valley say, "We've had enough of these idiots.
We're going to go up there and get them." But it hasn't happened yet. At least we don't think it has. So that's really the Hajes argument. That's the Petraeus argument. You know, that's the Lindsey Graham argument. If they could have done it, they would have. If they haven't done it, they can't. Well, that's not true.
>> And And why isn't that true? Because that is I I hear that a lot in Washington DC among even some people who are otherwise kind of balanced in their view. They say that exact same thing because they say you said a year ago talking about was something that I said that the that the Ukraine army could finally just collapse and yet it never did and Russia never has moved on there.
Ergo they can't. Why do you say that's not accurate? >> Let me go back to another analogy. Uh in 1943 uh people said well the Soviets have gone as far as they can get. They can't go any further. In fact, the senior leadership in the German armed forces kept insisting that they just didn't have the logistical support, the mobility, and and so these various offensives exhaust themselves over this great territory.
 Then we can attack, regain control of it, but they neglected to point to something and that was American lend lease. We had provided billions and billions of lend lease in in enormous quantities, all sorts of metals, locomotives, but most important hundreds of thousands of trucks and jeeps and so forth. In fact, when the Germans reached Stalenrad in 1942, they were shocked to see all this American military equipment sitting around that the Russians had ridden in to Stalenrad on.
 The Russians at the time, the Soviets carefully edited all the film to ensure that none of the American equipment was ever shown to any of the audiences inside the Soviet Union. But the truth is it was very important. It took a while for the Germans to come to terms with reality. And I think that Putin has made a terrible mistake.
 Let's put it put it very bluntly. He has held back too long in the hopes of a negotiated settlement. He needs to realize there will be no negotiated settlement. That means he needs to advance. And any anytime you read any of the Russian newspapers, read the Russian media, listen to the Russian military experts, they all say the same thing.
 We have all the forces we need. We have all the equipment we need. We have all the ammunition we need. That we can do this. Let's do it. Get this over with. President Putin has not yet decided to do that. And he is still in command. And until he does, uh, you're going to see these incremental advances, but nothing spectacular.
 And unfortunately, it's the spectacular breakthrough and advance that is required to wake people in the West up. >> Yeah. And and we're going to get to that next part there because there's two other areas that he's talking about on the along the line of contact that are really important to controlling the whatever happens next in Ukraine.
 What do you think about this theory that I've seen proper on some uh pro-Russian channels that that Putin has been aware of this from the beginning and he knew what needed to happen, but because he fears that it could eventually spawn a US I'm sorry, a NATO Russia war that they wanted to wait and build up over a period of a year and a half or so huge stockpiles of all different kinds of missiles, armaments, artillery, uh air defense missiles, all kinds of things and obviously drones.
 so that when they did make this big push then all of a sudden NATO would be drained because they would have less stuff and so that's what he's been playing for. That's obviously I can't prove any of that but that is one of the theories out there. What do you think? >> No, I think that's always been the case with him.
 He's always been concerned about it and talking to people that have recently returned from Russia. They all make the point that people there are convinced of an inevitable war with Europe. And this, of course, is based on the vacuous statements by the buffoons who currently govern Western Europe. The average Russian doesn't understand that NATO is an empty facade.
 The average Russian is unaware that no one in their right mind in Germany or France or England is interested under any circumstances in marching east to fight the Russians in Ukraine. It's nonsense. What they hear, they tend to believe. It's it's similar to what we were just discussing about people in the West. Well, if you have all this military power and you can crush your opponent, why don't you do it? The flip side of the coin is all these Europeans that have nothing to talk about.
 You know, you ever hear that you're a Texan or ever hear the old expression, uh, big hat, no cattle. Uh, that's what you're that's what you're talking about in Western Europe, big hats, no cattle. But the Russians are making the mistake of saying, "Uh, we need to be cautious and careful." Now, I think that's waning.
 In other words, I do think that's losing currency in Russia, if for no other reason, because there's a great deal of anger over these strikes that have managed to penetrate Russian air and and missile defense uh defenses in Russia. So, I think there's a great deal of anger. There's now a lot of pressure that wasn't there.
I do not know though. I, you know, wish I were on receipt of uh the notes from the last general staff meeting in Moscow, what they said in the Stavka. I don't know what they're discussing, but my impression is also from the few sources I have that the general officer leadership of the Russian military is very very frustrated.
They are very anxious to to launch major offenses and crush this once and for all. Well, that certainly is in a lot of their uh uh military journals that been able to get translated online through Google Translate. We'll see what's going to happen there. Let's move to the next area though because in the northeast corner in Coupons, uh that has been a big issue, too.
 About a year ago, Russians all but captured the city and then a series of counterattacks pushed Russia back. And at the time, every time they do one, the West and and Zalinsky specifically say, "Oh, we've got the Russians back on the run." But then after the headlines fade, they stop looking around and then Russia starts moving back up.
 Putin addressed that and said what they're going to do next. The West grouping, it has a large area of responsibility. I will begin with the city of Kian against the backdrop of whose rear representatives of the Kief regime like to arrange photo sessions. Our troops are at a distance of 2.5 to 4 to 5 km from the western edge of the city.
 The enemy has already undertaken a number of counterattacks. It had no success. The settlement of Ruptin, the next direction, the Rupov direction on the left bank of the Starry Oscll River. We have in fact practically blocked a mixed enemy grouping numbering about 5,000 people. It is pressed against the river. The first tank army of the Russian armed forces is advancing and pressing the enemy from the north.
 The third motor rifle division is pressing from the east and the 144th division from the south and until complete encirclement. Everything there is under fire control until full final encirclement about 2 kilometers remain. And Gary, if you could put that Kian's map up there, you can see what he's talking about physically portrayed here where there is movement on the Russian side on the north side uh on directly on the east side and most of Kian is now in the red area and then in the south where there's additional movement here into
some new gray zones, but it's it hasn't been a whole lot different from that at least in the last couple of months. Is this another area where we expect to see some actual movement coming up in the in the rest of the summer? Well, he pointed out that uh the areas that are to the west of Kian that you go back to that map and just look at that sort of uh it looks like South America in outline.
 Uh that that's under fire control and this this addresses Russian military tactics. He's interested has always been interested in and remains interested in minimizing Russian losses and casualties. We keep exaggerating them out of all proportional reality. They aren't heavy. But what he wants to do is that he wants to bring an area under control of fire.
 That means that anything that moves out there is going to be taken under immediate fire uh and accurate devastating firepower will kill it or destroy it or neutralize it. That's in preparation for movement across it. So I think yeah, he's talking about uh we've got all that we need there under control. will build up and at the right point in time we'll move.
Okay. Well, that's Putin, is it not? And that very deliberative uh approach and methodical approach is something that has been cultivated inside the Russian armed forces. You got to remember if you go back to the beginning of this whole thing, the Russians were criticized by observers for being not as well organized and coordinated as they needed to be of taking losses uh that they shouldn't have and so forth.
 Well, those days are over and he's not going to waste manpower at this point or resources unnecessarily. Now, again, does he have in the back of his mind this NATO threat, Dan? I'm sure he probably still does, even though I don't see any evidence for it in reality. Having said that, he was talking about the Oscll and Starry Rivers.
 I've seen some reports of a lot of mercenaries, in other words, non- Ukrainians in Ukrainian uniform operating in those areas. saw a report recently there could be as many as 50,000 or more uh non- Ukrainians in uniform fighting inside the Ukrainian army on the ground. And this is not surprising. The Ukrainians are running out of manpower.
 It's easier to let MI6 and CIA pay the foreigners to come in and fight for Ukraine, which is what's happened. So, I think that too is is not lost on the Russians. And they made it very clear if you're in Ukrainian uniform and you are a mercenary, you are going to be treated as the worst form of life on the planet, which means you're probably going to be executed.
>> And and you know, I I just got to ask a question on that, Doug. Why in the world would anybody I don't care how much money you put when nobody can be uh disabused about how big the casualties are on the Ukraine side and how just meat grinderish the front line especially is. Why do you think you at where do you get 50,000 if that's the number or any number of thousand willing to go into this for money when there's not much prospect they're going to be able to spend it? >> Well, I you know Dan I don't have the
answer because I'm not somebody like that and I'm not in that position. So I don't have an easy answer for it. The point is they continue to find people that will do it. And if you wave enough money in somebody's face and you arrange to have that money sent somewhere potentially back to somebody's family or to some, you know, numbered bank account, that may be enough.
 I I don't know.
