>> Do you not worry what happens when she dies? >> I worry about what happens when American presidents, you know, change over. Um, >> no. Less so, less so. Come on. when when it >> doesn't really doesn't really have >> look look G's an interesting figure in China's system because he is the closest >> to Mao they've had whereas Mao had like it was all on him and he led them and he did the after Mao died you'll remember they had Dong Xiaoing they had you know they they had Jang Jim they had Hu Juntowa um and those three guys ruled
much more like a cadre and less like a cult of personality. I'm not saying X's a cult of personality, but he's definitely more toward that end of the spectrum. Um I think if you look at and I think Xi therefore if you look at the last what five total Chinese communist rule rulers again communist in quotations um three of the five have not been this sort of cultish strongman type.
 They've very much led by executive committee and the you know they've run it more like a board of directors for a corporation than they have as like a dictatorship as we understand it. It wasn't Stalinist um or Mauist. Um, Xi, I think when he does eventually go, and he is old, uh, when he does eventually go, I suspect it will be he will be replaced by a more technocratic, less cult of personality type leader and it might actually end up stabilizing the political system beyond what it is at right now because China's political system is h, you know, it their economic
model works. those purges and recent purges and stuff. >> Yeah. Yeah. And so what he's doing though also under the the the impromoder of anti-corruption is he's getting rid of any potential impediment to his direct reign. Um that is in Chinese culture especially that is a that that gives him more power for sure.
 It allows him to maximize what he wants to do as quickly as possible. But that also means it's more responsibility. And if things go pear-shaped on him, that means he's going to get burned and held accountable by the other members of the cadre uh far more than he would have been if he had governed more like Deng Xiaoing or more like uh uh Hu Jin Tao.
 So, and with his age and with these, you know, there's there is a reckoning coming within the political system of China, but I think that the transition will probably be less toward another Xihinping like leader and more toward more of a committee, more toward that kind of board of directors style, uh maybe even a triumpvirate possibly.
 um which actually would probably lend itself to greater levels of stability within China's political system. >> I know you worry a lot about a war between um a continuation of the Iran US war. How worried are you about a conflict a direct conflict when it comes to China and uh and the US and how worrying is Taiwan for you? What do you think will happen with Taiwan eventually? So this is this is actually the thing that does keep me up more because um I think under ordinary circumstances I think the the if you look at things as
like a gravitational pole I think the gravitational pole or center of the world system is clearly in China's favor slowly naturally pulling the world system at least the developing world the global south pulling them firmly within China's orbit within that sort of Chinese-led bricks potential order. Um I think China doesn't have to do anything and it will naturally reorganize itself around the center the new center which is China but Xihinping is kind of a wild card and because it's not that committee-led system they had under the last three
leaders it's more like Mao Xihinping could potentially overstep miscalculate say I'm riding high right now I'm going to I'm going to go even farther now. Um and that could destabilize the whole system and trigger a regional and later world war. But so far it looks to me like Xi has also come to the conclusion that he does nothing and still wins as the meme says.
So I don't yet see and believe me I I used to think this was coming. So far though, I don't yet see China making the moves to initiate or to force a a situation where their military could possibly flip the script on the Americans. They don't have to. They've already achieved overmatch militarily in the First Island chain.
 News flash to Washington. And I warned them. I warned them. There's a there's a speech I gave in 2016 where you can find it, I'm sure. I warned them that this was coming that in 10 years time in 10 years time the uh the United States was going to be if we didn't change our ways the United States was going to lose out um the the first island chain to the Chinese.
 That time has come and they've already outmatched us. And if you go under my wret brief substack, I have an article up there today uh demonstrating how with the DF17 hypersonic glide vehicle, demonstrating how with the uh with what they're doing in counter space capabilities, with what they're doing with their anti-access area denial A2AD capacities, um they have already achieved overmatch.
 They don't really have to do much. They've already kept the American military at bay because the American military, the only way we can fight them is with the Navy and the Air Force. Well, they've ranged our air bases in the region uh with the DF-17 and these other weapons, and the Chinese can keep our carriers over the horizon with their DF-21, DF17s.
Um, we can't afford to lose our ships. The Chinese can. The Chinese have missiles in abundance and drones. And that's something the Iranian war, the Iran war has taught them as well. The Americans will keep their ships out of a contested hot uh combat zone. And so the question is does China really have to go to war uh to already achieve their grand plan of becoming the new number one? I think a rational actor would say no.
 But again because Xi has aggregated so much power toward himself and there are inputs you and I aren't privy to in that closed political system. It's possible also X says to survive I got to trigger a war now and red rededicate and redirect my people away from whatever they don't like in my regime to you know fighting a foreign foe.
 Do I think it'll be Taiwan? It's possible. That's the likeliest or that's the most obvious. But G and everybody who runs Beijing understands beyond the complexities of launching an amphibious attack. They also understand many Chinese view Taiwanese as fellow Chinese. And most Chinese people do not want to send their sons to go fight and possibly die killing other Chinese.
 They would much rather um do something against Japan. And I that is the unspoken story here. I'm I think I'm the only one who's been writing about this at my Substack uh about the actual threat to Japan, particularly now that they have this new government there where the the I think her name is um I'm forgetting her name, Tagachi or Tea.
 The new the new woman running Japan is extremely militant on China. China has scale. They have overmatch. They don't even have to invade Japan to do damage. They can do what Hezbollah does to Israel. They can do what Iran is doing to the Middle East. They can just overwhelm Japanese defenses with missiles and drones. What would be the trigger? Um Brendan O'Reilly, who my my buddy who wrote uh Everyone Is Wrong About China, the trigger would probably be if Japan decided we're going to get nukes, which is not impossible at this point given
the breakdown of the US alliance system. >> I I don't know. I think I think China would be more open to Japan having nukes and I don't think it would be that big of an issue for China. Um >> I don't I don't think you know it is an emotional issue. >> Yeah, but true. But that goes against if they if they find that to be an issue that goes against their non-interventionist strategy and why suddenly different for Japan.
>> No, it's that's different. That's different. We're talking >> country. It's a southern North Korea has a has a nuclear weapon. >> Yeah. North Korea. Yeah, but North Korea is a cat's paw for for Beijing. Um, in fact, this was one of the reasons the one of the the hidden stories, the backstories behind the Trump uh Kim Jong-un uh meetings in the first term was because the Chinese tried to have Kim Jong-il or Kim Jong-un rather whacked and replace him with his halfb brotherther who they could control more and
>> the Chinese tried to I think tried to kill Kim Jong-un because Kim Jong-un came into power replacing his father Kim Jong- Kim Jong-un came into power and he was very independent-minded and the Chinese were concerned. He the first thing he did was kill his uncle, which his uncle was China's man in the royal court of North Korea.
 And and Kim Jong-un did that very pointedly to send a message to Beijing, I'm my own man. Uh then he uh he went about killing all and and excommunicating all the people in the elite who were very close to China in in his first several years in power which led to his brother I think being eyed by China to replace Kim Jong-un.
 And Kim Jong-un famously had or infamously had his brother whacked. I think it was in the Thailand airport. Who were the bodyguards around >> South Korea? No, I'm pretty sure it was like Malaysia or Thailand. Um, who who was the who were the group that was supposed to be protecting the half brother >> were Chinese? Uh, they were Chinese.
 It was the chi they were Chinese military trained. >> Yeah. And uh and and that to me pointed to the fact that that was a hit on his own brother because Kim Jong-un was convinced the Chinese were going to try to whack him and replace him with their agent. uh his half brother. So he preempted it and then he started getting cozy with Trump because he didn't want to be Kim Jong-un didn't want to be too close to the Chinese knowing that they were coming at him.
 And I think that is what reset everything when Trump and him got along and started doing some really momentous stuff together at the diplomatic level. It's a shame that Trump didn't continue as president. Um but but that kind of >> remember when he crossed into North Korea yesterday? >> It was amazing. It was it was I mean that was like that was iconic.
 That was Trump at his finest. Um and it was beautiful actually to see. And um you know what happened then was uh Trump got out of office. He lost and Biden came in. Biden was um a lot I think uh less open to Kim Jong-un. And Kim Jong-un then had to pivot. And who did he pivot to though? Who did he pivot to? He pivoted to Putin.
 Uh Kim Jong-un pivoted to Putin to play China off of China because for Kim he knows China tries to use him as a cat's paw. But ultimately does China not want to see North Korea have nukes? China doesn't really care. They don't care about that. But they do care. They do care if Japan gets nukes. You can bet your bottom dollar on that.
And they will do something militarily if it looks like uh Japan is going to going to get nukes. And Japan, by the way, is looking at what happened in the Middle East and they're looking at what's going on in Europe and they're saying, "We can't trust the American security umbrella.
" Remember at the start of this year, Mario, they were having this this antagonistic round of of of back and forth between Tokyo and Beijing. And it and in fact, um what was it? The Japanese war plananes actually buzzed the Chinese carrier. I think it was in the um the Sea of Japan while the Chinese carrier was doing these provocative military exercises near Japanese territory and Trump got on the phone in December or January and told the Japanese leader, "Knock it off.
" And I think at that point, >> yeah, it was also when the Japanese leader was saying Japan will get involved if China makes a move on Taiwan. >> Yes. which is also when I spoke to the guys at Joint Base McCord several years ago, I warned the leadership there that the real issue with Taiwan is not a China Taiwan scenario because I don't believe any American leader would actually intervene militarily to stop it at this rate.
 But the mutual defense treaty with Japan, if Japan got involved, they might try to rope us in like NATO's trying to rope us in against Russia >> and like Israel's trying to rope us in even more with Iran. Everyone's trying to rope you guys in. >> I know. That's why my new book coming out. We don't yet know. It's probably going to be around.
>> The title is Stop Roping Us in everybody. >> That's actually not bad, Mario. That's not bad. No. >> Leave us the heck alone. >> That That's not bad. Get off my lawn. No. Uh, no. That's the title. The title is Fortress Americas, and it is uh it is about Western Hemispheric Defense. And uh >> Can't wait for it to come out.
>> Yeah, I'll send you a copy. I'm I'm almost done. I'm I'm about 20,000 words away and I'm trucking along at about 1,500 to 2,000 words a day. So, I'll be done soon. >> Yeah. >> All right, man. >> Thanks for jumping on. I think next next time we chat next time we chat, um I want to talk about Ukraine developments there with the assassination attempt in Monaco as well.
>> Just be on the lookout for Yes. be on the lookout for Ukraine possibly getting a nuke. And I'll just leave it at that. >> Right. All right. He gave us the title for the next interview that me and Brandon were doing. Why' you guys take him off so early? I usually say bye to him, guys.
 Why' they kick him out so quickly? What the hell, guys? All right, guys. I'll see you guys I'll see you in um in 15 minutes with a new guest uh with uh Tom Luongo and followed by Muhammad Faridi and then Larry Johnson. See you guys in 15. Bye.
