And I've been saying recently that the war is going to be moving fronts and it's going to become more I don't know if we did we talk about it yesterday how I believe it's going to become more of a war of proxies. >> I think you mentioned it either to me or I watch your show so I I think I've heard you say it but just you know everyone should go and see what I was saying back in March 9th.
 I was saying that Somali land and you know there was the the that side that kind of red sea area was going to pop next. And uh I think that's accurate. Yes, we did talk about it. Actually, we did talk about it because we were talking about proxy escalation. So yeah, we did talk about it. >> Everyone should go also see what I said in in February 2nd, 1996.
I said there's going to be more instability in the region. Everyone should go check that out. Well, you would have been you would have been a a prophet if you had said that because back then back then 96 those were good times, man, for everybody for the most part. >> Not not the Middle East, man. >> Not in the Well, yeah, but you know, it's all relative in the Middle East.
>> Better than True. True. Better than now. Well, let's talk. I know China is an area I understand really well. And the Guardian put out a really interesting piece today. I just got a summary of it here. Um so the guiding reports uh on an on an Asian group analysis uh that says that China emerged as the biggest strategic winner from the or in Asia at least from the US Israeli war against Iran.
 Uh number one, China weathered the energy shock better than expected thanks to large strategic oil reserves and years of investment in renewable energy making it less vulnerable than many Asian economies. Before we go, there's four points in there. Before we go to the second one, pretty clear, and you've talked about this already, that China was really wellprepared for this, wasn't it? >> Yeah.
 In fact, like I I think I said it to you or Tucker in the last two weeks, China really, it looked to me and sounded like their leaders were using this war as a proof of concept to see if they could really weather a real geopolitical crisis involving the United States. and they just proved they could uh they proved to the world that not only could they but they actually come out looking much better.
 You'll remember also by the way this is not the first time China has been in the middle of a major major crisis and they've actually come out ahead co which of course originated in China and I know there's some argument about the real origins but physically it came out of China whatever the origins were I think it was man-made um but it came out of China and the Chinese actually if you look at the first quarter after COVID when everything started to reopen China's GDP actually did better than the West and you know they were ground zero
of it and it's because the Chinese were able to prepare and they were able to weather the storm better uh than we and the West were and here again now you see this playing out with the Iran war. Everybody assumed that the United States and the West were going to come out ahead because China is so dependent on Middle East oil and Iranian energy in particular.
 That has not proven to be true as we're now seeing the United States is the one that's now over a barrel. Uh you know, we're all waiting for the the bottom to fall out because we're so exposed to the disruptions. China has not been. In fact, as we talked about last time, much of the rest of the world looked to China to help them during this crisis.
 And how did China do it? One of the things they did was voluntary, excuse me, voluntarily remove themselves uh from the global market for the last two months, relying exclusively on that SPR that they built up. So, Mario, China's looking pretty. And also it was a proof of concept to prove to the world that their renewable sector is truly truly robust.
 And it is it is not just wind that they have. It is not just solar. China has nuclear power. China has a uh you know geothermal power. China uses hydro power. Uh that's what the three gorgeous dam was about. And I remember six years ago being on a panel uh in Washington DC at a closed event and all of the panelists and these were very well-known people and because it was a closed event I will not say their names but these are very well-known people who are seen on Fox and MSNBC and CNN and they were all piling on me cuz I disagreed with them
when they said that the three gorgeous dam was going to collapse and that was going to become the the loss of Xihinping's mandate of heaven. and that that would lead to the collapse of China. Never happened. Was not going to happen. It was all a bunch of gobbledegook. >> Sorry. What is the What is that? >> So, the three gorgeous dam the three gorgeous dam is, I believe, the largest dam in the world.
 Um, it it they China built it to help to not only dam up the river, but they also use it for massive hydroelect electrical power generation. and they forced a lot of Chinese homeowners out of that area so they could basically dam it up and you know change the geography and it was a big controversy and a lot of people in the west were using that as another example of Chinese government going too far not being fair to their people blah blah blah there was concerns that there was engineering instability with the construction of the three gorgeous dam
it was so big and massive that they didn't build it right was the argument and that it was basically starting to bend and buckle uh and whatnot. It never never turned to be true. It it was a complete intelligence, you know, misunderstanding uh for from the west. And the bottom line is people in 2020 when this story was going around, including very well-known people who should know better, uh were running around telling the US military, telling the US government, well, between that and co gee's coming to an end. It's not
happened. Uh, you know, the the Chinese is a nearly a what is it? Over 4,000y old country. They're a civilization state. They're not going anywhere, guys. Uh, until the 1400s, in many respects, China was actually more advanced than the Europeans, and it flipped in the mid400s when the Ming Emperor died.
 But now, it's flipping again. And I think that it's very clear that whatever happens with the Chinese current government, China is not going away as a great power. They're a competitor. They have a lot of durability clearly and they're only getting stronger. And I'll just add one other thing, Mario. I have a dear friend, uh, two people that I know, but one one I'm close with was Dan Collins.
 There's another one named Mitch Presnik. And these are really really brilliant. And Brendan O'Reilly as well who wrote Everyone Is Wrong About China. These are three brilliant China hands that I routinely talk to. They all speak Mandarin. Dan and Mitch started major businesses and Dan still has businesses in China and and Brendan is a former intelligence analyst who lived in China for a decade.
 All three of them tell me that um there's a sort of mentality among the Chinese. It's a floodplane mentality. Basically, right now the times are good. So the Chinese want their government and want themselves to maximize the good times because you never know when the floods are going to come back and they'll be weak again. And that is why China is maximizing.
 They are uh you know leveling up if you will even when the west is saying oh no no they're about to fall. They are not about to fall. And they're benefiting now from the geopolitical instability in ways that Washington never well Washington didn't predict. People like me I was not alone in this by the way. Other people were saying this as well, but people like me were warning Washington, this is not going to go the way you think it will, but here we are.
Um, so the other point in the um in the piece, the crisis accelerated demand for Chinese clean energy exports. So, China's exporting not only for internal consumption, but they're exporting solar panels, batteries, electric vehicles. >> Um, so that's another way they're benefiting. >> It's another way they're benefiting.
 And they're also sticking an eye a needle in the eye of the west. Right? Remember I remember in 2010 I remember everybody talking about how dirty and polluted China is. And China has a lot of you know they're a large country that rapidly industrialized. So they went through a really heightened period of of industrial degradation or or or environmental degradation.
 But China also is the country that committed to reducing that over time. And one of the ways they reduced it was through the creation and the investment and the scaling of workable alternative energies. Whereas in the west we talk a lot we talk a big game and we tax the hell out of industries to make them sustainable.
 China said we're not going to do any of that. We're just going to create alternative technological routes that will inevitably mature and will inevitably replace the quote unquote dirty energy production that we go through today. And that is what you are seeing in real time happening. They didn't punish industry in China. They didn't go after the producers.
 They just created alternative means. They scaled it. They made it marketable. And now here you have China is again running circles around the west in a very interesting and dynamic new field. In the west we talk about Celindra which was a massive government project that failed miserably. Uh it was just it was just a symbol of graft and corruption in 2012.
 In China they don't have cylindra was a was a it was during the Obama administration. This was a big political issue during Obama's re-election campaign. Basically, a bunch of Obama allies, a bunch of Democratic Party allies got subsidies from the Obama administration to create Yeah. And it didn't go well. And the Chinese, on the other hand, don't have this problem.
>> The renewable renewable energy subsidies were renewable energy companies. Correct. >> There was a renewable energy company that received subsidies from the Obama administration to jumpstart solar industry in the United States or to scale it. They couldn't do it. They couldn't compete with China, it turns out.
 uh and the American taxpayer ended up basically footing the bill for that failure. In China, because they have scale, because they have mass production, because they have a very talented human capital pool, many of whom we trained, by the way, and didn't retain here. Um the Chinese have been able to now become not just competitive, but dominant in alternative energy.
 And alternative energy is not just wind, you know, that's not all it is. It's hydro, it's geothermal, it's nuclear. China, my understanding is they have the hottest burning Takamac nuclear fusion reactor right now that's more advanced than anything in the west. South Korea is the next one.
 Uh and I think Japan is right behind them. But China's leading the way now in nuclear fusion R&D. So, you know, China has they've already surpassed us in so many respects and uh the war is not helping to slow them down. It's actually it's actually, you know, supercharging them. The Iran war. The Iran war. Yeah. >> Yeah.
 So, so, but doesn't that mean strategically speaking, they have an incentive for the war to continue? >> Yeah. So, this is an interesting thing, and we kind of touched on this before. Yes. The Chinese are benefiting, but you have to remember this is a more than 4,000 year old culture. The kind of preferences and proclivities that have become ingrained over the course of that time still dominate the thinking even of so-called communist leaders.
 These guys are not really communists. They're state capitalists. There's a difference. Um but the the and the the preference and the proclivity culturally for China historically has been we want to maintain st as much stability along our periphery because otherwise instability along the periphery will feed into instability and disruption and rebellion in the center of the country which then leads to the decapitation of regimes, leads to civil war, leads to famine, leads to the overthrow of dynasties.
 And you have to really you have to really view notably Xihinping, but you really have to view the entire Chinese um Communist Party of China as just another of several dynasties that has ruled China. And when you put it into that perspective, particularly now, you start to understand the patterns that are at play and why the Chinese certainly don't want the US to run the world anymore, but the Chinese government also doesn't want to see this kind of protracted instability because they just don't like that.
>> That's a good point. So it's like a thin line where they do want to see a weaker the U a weaker US where in relative terms they do benefit but if they do don't benefit in absolute terms and you know using their strategic reserves having higher inflation whatever it is oil shortages even though even if they weather the issues better than the rest of the world so in relative terms they're doing better they still worry if they push it too far >> then having it could lead to instability back home. So it's kind of they're
treading a very very thin line. >> That's right. And you have to remember also the Chinese elite, the people leading the country, these are mostly people with engineering and other kind of mathy hard science backgrounds. Whereas in the United States, the people leading our country tend to be lawyers, lobbyists, liberal arts majors.
 These are not people who really think uh in sort of the grand kind of strategic terms. Uh notably the civilian leadership, they don't think like this. Uh it's all very sort of not technocratic. It's not competent. Uh it's very ideological and it's very self negating. And our system does not allow really anymore for long-term strategic planning. It just does not.
 I mean I I I point to a recent piece of, you know, work that I did where I analyzed why did the Biden administration, I think in 2021 or 2022, sell off the US helium reserve. We had a strategic helium reserve that we had been building since 1920s and we sold it during the Biden administration to a German company that had direct and significant linkages according to the United States Congress uh when they did an investigation after the fact it had significant ties to the Chinese Communist Party.
 Um so now in a way indirectly China is owning our strategic helium reserve and they've since drained it. The helium reserve has been drastically reduced. Um and helium of course is a very critical supply for multiple industrial inputs. Uh notably the production of semiconductors. So my point here is why did we do that? Well some people say it's because Biden was corrupt and I think that's probably part of it.
 But part of it is also because the US government wasn't thinking. It wasn't thinking that, hey, we might need this and we don't we don't want to get rid of it. Even if there's a chance we could maybe make some money uh off of it, we don't want to get rid of that. But that's not the thinking. That's not the thinking. >> The Chinese do think like that.
>> It's the uh it's the three little piggies. Remember the three little piggies? Uh the one that built their house with brick. uh you know just just you know maybe I'm getting >> so how the hell the German company have ties to the CCP and why did by the what's your analysis why did >> eventually so so basically the company in question had business ties in China and I'm going off memory now because it's been a while since I've thought I've had to talk about it but but basically the company in question the the United States Congress they
investigated it after the fact this was a cifhious failure the United States Congress determined that this German firm was able to purchase it um because they did not present themselves as having a lot of contact connectivity with China. They just said, "Hey, we're a German company." And the Biden administration signed off on it.
 And the twist was after the fact, turns out that company has a massive presence in China. They do massive amounts of business with Chinese-owned ent military entities. And there is a fear among Congress that notably the Republicans in Congress that this sale was actually or this purchase was actually orchestrated on behalf of the Chinese government which wanted more access to helium because of course China is you know building their own massive semiconductive production capability.
The third point's an interesting one. Let me know if you agree with this one. The report argues the conflict reinforced China's narrative that the US is a destabilizing force in the Middle East and even the world, but in the Middle East in this case. While China presents itself as a more stable long-term partner, China's been trying to create that image for itself for a while now, for years.
>> And it seems that Iran, the Iran war played into that hand really well. >> 100% 100%. This this at every level this conflict in with Iran in the Middle East has been a strategic disaster for the United States. There is no win here. The only upside, as I have said before, is indirect in that if it forces us to permanently be out militarily of the Middle East and forces us to rep prioritize our own hemisphere, that's a win then. But it isn't by design.
 I can assure you of that. None of this is by design. Um the the the Chinese are the real benefactor or beneficiaries rather of this conflict. And from here on out, we talked previously in one of our episodes, Mario, of a post-american Middle East. This is clearly a postamerican multipolar world system that's being birthed before our eyes.
 It is one in which America is, yes, a great power. It's not the superpower, though, and it is in relative decline. We are in we are officially there's no question now that this country is in relative decline compared to other great powers rising powers like China and it will be I think a China oriented maybe not China run because there's there's still some question as to whether Beijing actually really wants to fully replace the United States as sort of the world policeman.
Who would want that responsibility by the way? Uh only the idiots in Washington want that. Um but China definitely will it will be a Chineseoriented or Chinese orbiting world system not unlike the concentric circles of China's tributary system that ruled their imperial order when the emperor sat at the middle and everything else orbited around him in that tributary system.
 I think that's where it's leading to. Do you not worry that if an autocracy becomes a world superpower and replaces a democracy, an imperfect democracy? What don't you worry about massive centralization of power on a global level? I mean, so generally it's a concern. Yeah. Uh if you had asked me that 10 years ago, I would have been much more gung-ho in my answer saying yes, absolutely.
 But I look at the United States after the last 10 to 12 years. I look at the West, the so-called West in general, the so-called developed world, and I I I see a lot of autocracy here. I see a lot of centralization here, and it's all >> still a lot a lot less than the CCP. >> Uh, admittedly, so I'm not saying that this the CCP call the president an  right now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, I I get that. Well, well, yeah, >> try that. Try that. Yeah, you can. >> I I Yeah. Yeah. I I I get it. I get it. But what my point is my point is is that we are trending more closer to the China model on our own than China is trending closer to our model. And so really it's a question of gradation.
 Um and and again I don't know if China wants to run the world so much as be the center of it. And there is a slight difference there. Um the Americans, the British before um the Romans, they ran the world as they knew it. Um the Chinese, I it's definitely not something that's going to be good for America on a political and military and kind of national security level.
 Do I think the Chinese want to invade America and conquer us? No. No. No. Well, don't say of course because I mean historically empires do that and America's been doing that now a lot in the Middle East. Uh we don't call it that, but that's what we've been doing. Um so, you know, I don't want China to run the world, to be clear.
 I don't want to see them the number one. I want us to be number one, the United States. But, you know, I do I do I get into that kind of ideological game anymore? No. I think that's a holdover from the Cold War. I think the real question is what system does more for most people? And I think still the American system has had a comm c commulatively more positive impact even with all the covert action and whatnot.
 Um but you know I don't think that's really even relevant here because it's a question of who has the juice, who has the power. And uh right now it looks to me like that power and that momentum and that leverage is increasingly Beijing's to lose whereas the Americans have already given theirs away. We have already lost the mantle of if you want to say empire.
 We've already lost that.
