He he he has no resolute beliefs or principles at all. He's completely flapping in the wind all the time. And I I think he is It's because of Trump's weakness that this disaster has and it continues to unfold. It's because of Trump's weakness that the Ukraine situation is way worse than it was when he took office a year and a half ago.
 And it's because of Trump's weakness that the Gaza situation is an abject failure by the United States. That it's 10 times worse than when he took office. It's because of his weakness. He Donald Trump is right now making Joe Biden look strong and stable in comparison. I'm not saying Biden was, >> but relatively speaking, >> at least Biden had a >> actually Biden wasn't there.
 It was a >> It was exactly He at least has the excuse of having dementia and early onset Parkinson syndrome. What's Donald Trump's excuse? I mean, I don't think he has dementia. He seems he seems fairly canny, especially when it comes to his uh you know, stock market picks. you know, he's he's not uh absent-minded, but he's weak.
 He's a weak politician, and he's he's in Donald Trump is in way over his head. He's in the only thing that a leader like in in that position in as a chief executive in America to get through a crisis like this, you need to have strong principles that provides you with your backbone. Trump has the backbone of a jellyfish.
 He has no beliefs or principles in pretty much anything. The only thing he really deeply believes in is that he must always be pumping up his personal brand and taking credit for things that he did or didn't do. That's the only real solid belief system that this president has. Nema, I've been we've been watching him extremely closely the last year and a half and he is just it's just one failure after another.
 He keeps racking them up and then trying to sell his failures as great victories and successes. And at this point, it's just become a running joke. And this has come at such an extreme cost to the region, to the global economy, to the United States, politically, US, the American reputation on the world stage. He he Donald Trump and his administration have done so much damage to all of this that I I I I don't I don't want to bet against them, you know, all the time, but I think you'd be a fool to bet that they're going to be successful at this
point unless there's a massive change in personnel and policy. Is that, you know, I I I don't think that's going I don't think they're capable of that. I I really don't. And so that's why I'm really cynical about these negotiations. And that's why the only hope is that Iran and its allies and maybe the Gulf States can see through this deception and and somehow chart a more responsible and sane path through this.
 And for the Gulf States not to use Lebanon as their personal project that they can throw money at and manipulate. I'm talking about Saudi Arabia. I'm talking about the UAE and others. And that's what they've traditionally done with to Lebanon and Syria. And that's this is also part of the I think real damage that's being done to to the region and the world is because of that.
 You can blame Israel for a lot, but we can also blame the Gulf for their constant meddling and trying to pick winners and losers and their sectarian proclivities. It's uh it's been devastating for Lebanon and it's it's a real attack on their sovereignty. So they're they're the Lebanese sovereignty is getting hit by the Americans uh you know not allowing their armed forces to have any real defense.
 They're getting hit by the Gulf States by all the cash that is a wash in their system picking sides getting setting people against each other and their sovereignty has taken a massive hit by the Israelis. It's a tiny country. Lebanon, it's the size of Wales. And you have three, you know, powerful countries undermining and gnawing away at their sovereignty constantly.
And the they they really can't defend themselves. Lebanon's so weak uh as as politically and you know, their government is really based on a sham. Uh it's the confessionalist system is based on a census from 1960 and the numbers don't reflect what the actual demographics are today which there would be the president should be Shiite.
If you're going by proportional sectarian representation uh and you wouldn't have this deal would not have been signed. They wouldn't have entered into any negotiations with Israel would be a united front and that would be that. But in the colonial tradition, the west like to have a minority in charge of a bigger majority and that's that's the way they want it.
So that's how they manage Lebanon. >> Yeah. Which is the case for Bahrain. >> Uh yes. Yes. Bahrain or you know Saddam Hussein in Iraq or uh list goes on and on. >> Yeah. I think Patrick when it comes to the Israel and the concept behind Israel getting back to what Barack Rid Tom Brock sorry Tom Brock the US envoy to Turkey he said in September 2025 and everybody's fighting for legitimacy what does that means that they're going to fight and they're going to some countries have to submit some countries have to dominate is Israel dominating
the region and the other countries have to submit. You know, this is the concept. Do you think that sort of sentiment going to prevail in the Middle East as an outcome of this war? And how is Israel today compared to what it was before the war started in your opinion? >> Look, uh, Israel is severely weakened politically in the region as well as internationally.
 Okay? They're they're they will be facing more sanctions in the coming months and the coming years. That's that's almost certain. So the the environment Israel's been able to operate in is changing politically. Uh militarily the United States is severely weakened in the region. That by by extension that weakens Israel militarily because Israel is only allowed to punch above its weight with US support.
Period. So they're they're tremendously weakened. What Israel does have uh is they have the use of extreme violence uh against civilians as leverage. So, you know, threatening to kill massive amounts of civilians and knowing that nobody can restrain them or stop them um is one of their big advantages that they've gained.
 And it's a new advantage because these things were unacceptable 5 years ago or 10 years ago and now they're fully, you know, the the West have and the European powers have shown that they will give the green light to genocide one in Gaza, genocide 2 in South Lebanon, and a whole series of poggrams in the West Bank, as well as undeclared wars of aggression against Iran.
 uh Israel has the green light to do all of these things. So that's that's a very difficult thing to contend with if you're trying to play by the rules of international law. Uh like Iran is trying to do. And Hezbollah is also I know some Americans will pull their hair out if I say this, but Hezbollah is very circumspect and strategic in how they they um how they carry out their rules of engagement.
 and they're very sensitive to trying to stay and maintain a frame within international law and even UN resolutions and also uh there there are disputes with Israel o over occupied territories in South Lebanon that Israel's never relining. That's that's a fact. Um so so so what is stopping them? What's the only thing that can stop them? It's the continued resistance of Hezbollah that has surprised everybody.
 It has surprised everybody in the last year especially. Everybody wrote off Hezbollah after the pager attacks and the uh assassination of Hassan Nasallah uh and that they were wiped out. They're no more. There's no more leadership. The organization's gone. They've lost their lifeline from the Assad government via Iran.
 All these things have been cut off. And yet they're still resisting. So it's that steadfast resistance from natives of Lebanon, the indigenous people of Lebanon and the resistance uh by Iran imposing uh restraints on the Israelis and the Americans. Those are the only two factors and those are both done out of determination and sacrifice.
Those those are the two parties as well as Ansar Allah to a lesser degree but they're more remote I think in terms of their proximity to this particular theater but still the same. They're resisting uh US aggression. They went to war with the United States and the United States uh inflicted heavy damage on Yemen and they're still resisting.
 So it is that steadfast relentless resistance that makes the difference and I I believe personally uh if Iran doesn't budge from its principles on it the things that the expert council is saying and the supreme leader is saying if they stick to their principles and do not make any concessions to the US I think they'll probably over time uh they they'll force everybody to conform to their position.
That's that's my belief. If if they start making concessions, then they're going to have problems because, you know, the the United States is not going to be a fair negotiation partner. They have an alternative agenda. And and if the Iranians know this and just try to continue uh taking the high road on this, being a leader in the region, then I think that can be successful.
 That's not to say there's there's not going going to be more conflict and I think the Iranians know this. There will be most likely the United States and Israel are not going to admit defeat uh against Iran. They will continue to fight and to try to undermine and sabotage and and wreck the Iranian economy in any way they can and their infrastructure and their leadership, maybe even regime change.
They haven't given up on any of this, I don't think. So th that's where the factors stand at the moment, I think. >> Yeah. When you look at the, you know, the board of peace and the way it seems that the United States is a they're going to put a base in Gaza with 5,000 soldiers and it's huge.
 I I don't know what would be the mission on the part of the United States to be there and just before coming to this live we've learned from you know the sources that the United States Trumpet Board of Peace they have released images showing the arrival of the new vehicles the vehicles that is HMMWV they said in some sort of military vehicles they sent them to Kuram Shalom home in Israel as part of this mission on the part of the border of peace.
 And I think the case of nobody's talking about Gaza today because it's all about the straight of form and the ongoing negotiations between Iran and the United States, the case of Lebanon, which is so important by the way, it's all connected with, you know, the people in Palestine and in the West Bank in in Gaza. But do you see the moment? I I believe if the talks continue between Iran and the United States, Gaza and Palestine would be one of the main objectives on the part of Iranians because they said they're going to be let's see what would
happen in Lebanon. I don't see the case of Lebanon changing even with the new MOU. Is that going to bring some sort of leverage for Israel? I don't think so. But they Israelis what the argument on the part of Israelis right now is if Hezbollah attacks the northern part of Israel as part of this MOU we're going to attack Dah and let's see if that happens how what would be the reaction from the Iranians >> and I don't know what is that and >> but but yeah, Hezbollah would only attack positions in northern Israel if well
they they they within they're well within their rights because Israel has has violated ceasefire so many times. Um but I if if the if the aggression continues, they just destroyed a whole village uh in the last 24 hours and Hezbollah is with within their rights to attack the source of the aggression, but it will be painted in the international media uh politically in the west as a terrorist attack against Israel.
 So they they're always going to win on this narrative so long as they maintain the illusion that Hezbollah is like the equivalent of ISIS. And that's kind of how the West and the Israeli lobbyists, they're ecstatic. They love this is one of their great achievements is to paint any Shiite resistant resistance organization as like the equivalent of ISIS.
 It's it's a propaganda victory uh that they've achieved in the west and it's quite frankly not difficult to do uh if if everybody in the mainstream media is reading from the same script and you know your Marco Rubio's Tom Cotton's of the world and Mike Waltzes of the world all these stooges on the payroll of IPAC in the Israeli lobby they know how to read their lines you know and they've been doing it so long that the American people pretty much believe that, you know, anybody that's fighting back against Israeli occupation or aggression is just some
bloodthirsty Islamist terrorist when in fact the real bloodthirsty uh radical Islamist takiri terrorists, al-Qaeda and ISIS, never touched Israel. Never touched Israel. And that's not by coincidence. That says a lot more about who controls ISIS and al-Qaeda and these the these various groups, be they in Syria or elsewhere, who they actually work for.
 You can tell by who they don't attack. So, and they they certainly don't do much pushing back against the US presence, the illegal US occupation in Syria. Very little if any thing. Uh and that's not a coincidence either. uh and so yeah, Turkey ditto with Turkey and their role in facilitating uh uh those groups takeover of of Syria. So, you know, that's as long as this is framed in these very inaccurate and deceptive ways in the West, we're we're always going to struggle uh to get some kind of a political change in Western policy because people
are just so brainwashed after decades of the same old same old reinforcement of these false narratives. And this is exactly what the Israeli lobby's job is. This is a big part of the Israeli lobby job is all the framing of the uh opposition against Israel in the region. The whole purpose of the Israeli lobby and really of the United States politically and geopolitically in in the middle in the Middle East and West Asia is to protect to allow Israel to act with impunity in any way that it wishes. That's the whole function of the
US really. Um it's one of the main functions if not the main function is to to insulate them from international law, from accountability, uh from international condemnation, to attack and sanction anybody that's that's holding them accountable like Franchesca Albanes, the UN special reperator at the United Nations.
 It's just unbelievable the stuff they get away with, you know, getting her sanctioned because she's documenting providing factual reports about an ongoing massacre, genocide, ethnic cleansing in Gaza in the West Bank. And and that's that's sanctionable according to the US government. I mean, this is pretty crazy crazy times we're living in here.
What do you make of the conflict between Turkey and Israel? It's basically the way they're talking to each other. And we we've seen how Israelis every time they're talking about Turkey says that the next target is Turkey because they're so dangerous. Even with the case of Al Golani in Syria and on the part of Erdogan every every time he's somehow addressing the issue in the Middle East says that the basic the main problem is Palestine they have to address that we have that the main problem is Zionism and he he's
mentioning these sort of keywords but when it comes to to do something practical he's doing nothing. Uh in my opinion, the two big boys in the Middle East or in the West Asia or Iran and Turkey. >> The moment these two countries come together, that's going to be a sea change in the whole calculation in the Middle East and Aragon has the support of the population.
 The recent polls, many people are arguing that Turks are pro, you know, Israel. I don't accept any of this because the polls show more than 97% of the people in Turkey support any sort of you know policy against Israel because they don't like Israel and what Israel is doing in Gaza in Lebanon. That's why the government has total support of the public opinion if they decides if they decide to go that far to do something about Israel practically.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um t Turkey look Turkey by nature of its geographic disposition of its geopolitical position as a hinge for West Asia and Europe as as a pivot point. Um it's it it has to uh it has to contend with and dance with you know five or six different partners simultaneously. But it also opens itself up to a lot of different pressure and manipulation.
So everything that the CIA or British intelligence do in Armenia, in Azabaijan, in Iraqi Kurdistan, in Syria, and Turkey also has to play a role as a NATO member in this. Certainly Turkey played a very central role in the destabilization and destruction of Syria. There's no question about that.
 But so did the kingdom of Jordan >> in the south. They provided the staging. They trained all the free Syrian army, British soldiers, US soldiers, our militaries, trained all the terrorists and then deployed them into Dra and all the different parts of uh Syria. And then uh Turkey uh facilitated the transit of hundreds of thousands of Takiri fighters from 120 different countries to come to fight the what they called what the radical clerics on the satellite TV channels for 10 years was calling the good fight against the evil Bashar al-Assad. Um and
that was all for whose benefit? Israel's benefit strategically at the end of the day. I think we can see that now. That's beyond debate. But Turkey uh is in a difficult position because you're right, Nema, the people in Turkey absolutely support the Palestinian issue. It's a very emotional and a very dear issue for them as Muslims as well.
Very important issue. But the leadership is pulled uh west through NATO through its affiliations with the US and and Israel's issuing open threats against Turkey now. But it can't attack Turkey because Turkeykey's a NATO member. So to that NATO gives Turkey protection from Israel, but it also binds Turkeykey's hands that they can't really take a proactive role on behalf of Arabs or the Palestinians.
 There is another aspect to this is that um uh Taip Erdogan has been trying to transform the Turkish state from an adatururk secular uh model uh into a more Islamist state. And this is a 35-year project. And this is what the AK party is about. And this is what Erdogan's electoral success is based on. And he's been very successful in pushing this project forward and people uh is transforming tur the Turkish government its state transforming the political economy but and at the same time so delivering the Islamic promise but at the same time
having to deliver economic development and success at the same time. It's a very difficult uh uh balancing act for Ankara. A very difficult balancing act, very complex. Uh it got involved in nation building in Syria and occupying territory uh along the Syrian border. I personally think this is a huge mistake, but but this was a big it was a big part of his electoral pitch, which which is we're going to Aleppo is Turkey.
 uh neootmanism, rekindling the glory of the Ottoman era. Uh make Turkey great again. It's the same thing. It's like make America great again. He was like the Trump of Turkey, you know, make Turkey great again. And this was a powerful message for uh um the the his support base and very and his his support base, you know, be because of the demographic changes in that country.
 people from the rural counties depopulating because of drought, because of development, because of globalization, people moving to the city, transforming the city from a liberal secular Istanbul into uh now very strong Islamic voting blocks in a country, a city like Istanbul. So then you know the mayor of Istanbul in that new demographic uh then and becomes the uh president of the country uh that's a transformation of politics >> and and that's what's happened in Turkey uh and and it's changed the media.
 It's transformed the politics whether it's long-term successful or not. It could very easily revert back um back in to a to a more liberal or western direction. It could. It's a very difficult project. So I I think you're very right to look at this conundrum that Turkey is in and I think that yeah, the easiest way to explain this is they're being pulled east and west simultaneously and that makes it very difficult. You're right.
If if there could be an alliance between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey, they share a border. Uh the economic uh benefits could be massive. Turkey has such great industrial and human capital and engineering and everything. You know, they're they have a very dynamic economy.
 Um, and as an energy hub for the for the region, they're legitimately an energy hub uh for transit as well uh into Europe. Um, so it could be very successful. Um, and and that that's a reason why the US and Israel would not would like not to see that happen quite frankly. And this is why that it's probably important for the CIA uh for British intelligence for the Israelis to make sure that Azerbaijan uh is is continues to play the role of agitation against tan because they're an ally with Turkey.
 So it automatically creates a problem just the nature of it. That's what our intelligence agencies are busy doing, creating those fissure lines and those lines of of mistrust and instability where you have two allies and then an ally and and a and a possible adversary. So that adversary can't be friends with the other person's ally. And this is the game.
 This is what the United States stay up late thinking about. How can we manage to cut off uh cooperation and solidarity in this region? what can we do? And this is what the British have always been very successful at uh over the over the centuries. And the Americans are basically doing the same thing with the help of the Israelis.
So >> it's it's it's it's frustrating, >> but I I don't think Israel can can touch Turkey. Uh maybe they could fight a proxy war in Syria uh limited, but as long as Turkeykey's a NATO member, they won't be touched by the Israelis. But Israel will threaten them and maybe they could create a situation where they could uh kick them out of NATO, get the United States to somehow, you know, remove them from NATO or some new bylaw, they'll rewrite the NATO constitution or whatever.
 But until that time comes, uh, it's it's just threats. I think those threats are probably more aimed at what you said, Nema, which is preventing a Turkish Iranian alliance. And that might be more about what that tension is about um rather than a direct uh assault, but also to warn off Turkey of not getting involved uh in Lebanon in a way that goes against the Israeli interest, which is Israel wants a civil war.
 The US, Tom Barack, everybody, they want to see a civil war. They want a bloodbath in Lebanon. They want nothing more than to see an absolute bloodbath in Lebanon. And Israel is dreaming of this because they know this this will be their great opportunity to solidify all of their gains and then increase control even more and do so under the banner of bringing stability to Lebanon.
but stability with strings attached and long-term presence by the Israelis and then the settlements can come in and we'll settle just like they're doing in the Golden Heights building Jewish settlements on Syrian land. Same thing will happen in Lebanon. Give it five or 10 years. This is the Israelis are 10 moves ahead of >> Yeah.
>> everybody, you know, they're way ahead. >> Unless somebody stops them, they will continue doing what they've been doing. Thank you. Thank you so much, Patrick. Please go 21st Century Wire and follow Patrick and you can follow him on Patrickhennixson. Stack all the links to his YouTube channel and to his Substack.
 You can find it in the description of this video. Go there and follow him. Thank you so much for being with us. >> My pleasure. Thanks, Nemo.
