It's going to it's it it's already failing for the exact same reasons. There's public unrest. Uh the Lebanese army won't be able to hold any territory and you know, you can just go down the and and check the boxes. It's it's the same type of a move that they made back in 1983 during the Lebanese civil war. It shows you how they don't have much creativity.
 The only thing is Israel is a much stronger hand to play now than they did in ' 83 because in ' 83 it was the United States government did not allow Israel to commit genocide. And that's the difference between 2026 and 1983 is Israel now has the open door to uh commit an ongoing genocide uh as in when they feel it's in their interest for quote security and they've done that in South Lebanon and they've depopulated and ethnically cleansed and displaced you know more people than the Nakba uh and Palestinians that were displaced in 1948. That's the scale of this disaster
but it's not being portrayed as such uh in the global media uh because the western government has been well distracted with this the theater in Iran uh and that situation as well as of course Gaza u is is still getting a lot of attention but very little in terms of the damage to to Lebanon. So don't think that the US aren't fully aware of all these factors and they're not using them in conjunction with Israel in order to weaken the Iranian uh negotiations bargain and to maintain the status quo uh in the region and then prepare and
use this to buy time to rearm to reorganize for a future attack on Iran. I I believe that's the US agenda. I believe that's absolutely 110% the Israeli agenda. Uh and it's it's to me it's a question of when, you know, when are they going to feel they have a strong enough hand to mount another attack on Iran and what shape is that going to take? On what timeline? Because every single indicator suggests this.
Um, if you can't just believe the temporary rhetoric coming out of the Trump administration, he's so inconsistent. Uh, he just descended into a complete, rapacious bombing campaign attacking Iran. And people say, "Wow, they're symbolic targets. They're targets nonetheless. This is a blatant, flagrant violation of a deal that the whole world was anticipating and hoping that was going to create a road map to a negotiated settlement.
 Now, we can see there's no chance of that with this government, with this administration. Uh they're very dishonest, very underhanded, very deceptive, and they are working handinand with the Israelis to make sure that this peace process goes nowhere. The only thing that's giving it any teeth uh is the fact that Iran does have physical leverage.
physical leverage uh in terms of its missile deterrence plus the uh the management uh and control logistically over the straight of Hormuse. Th those are the two factors where Iran is able to exert a physical uh leverage in this situation. Besides that, I don't believe they have a partner.
 Uh the Iranians do not have a partner uh in this in this process. They're they're acting really on their own valition and according to their own interests and hoping that maybe some good is going to develop from this. But I don't believe tan is really expecting the United States is going to fulfill any of their obligations.
 I I just don't see it. >> Looking at the twous I think somehow different one of them is between Iran and the United States. They don't need to ratify that by the parliament in Iran or the Congress in the United States because these are somehow some sort of steps toward achieving or toward the next step, the next phase of talks.
Let's assume that be positive about that. But with the case of Lebanon is somehow different. You're basically legitimizing the Israeli occupation in southern part of Lebanon by saying that they can stay there as long as Hezbollah is not disarmed. This is not something coming from the government in Lebanon. It has to be ratified in the parliament >> and without that I I don't see anything happening practically.
 It's not pragmatic somehow looking at the not only the occupation. It's about the aid you know military aid to h to Lebanon basically what type of military aid do they need and they need air defense system fighter jets are they going to get it? nothing of that sort. So when it comes to, you know, it says that the government in Lebanon would cooperate with the United States to put pressure on the acts of resistance financially, you know, to go after them, how they receive money, where what are the sources and how to cut the, you know,
the links and this is all about that and putting pressure on the acts of resistance. basically it means Lebanon and Palestinians who who's the >> which is already the policy and this is an ongoing process that's been going already. So, as you rightly point out, I mean, Hezbollah, the party, the political wing, um, has a working majority, you could say, uh, over parliament, uh, and the Nabil Barry and other statements. Uh, there's no way.
There's no way. It's, it's not going to, uh, it's not legal. the pre the president has no legal authority and certainly any of these ambassadors that signed it have no legal authority for that and not to mention it's u it would require a rewrite of the Lebanese constitution uh just just to enter into an agreement like that it's what it is is symbolic and a huge um betrayal and a and a really high act of treason by the president and the prime minister.
 um that it is one of the most treasonous acts in the history of Lebanon I would think and that's not uh an exaggeration and that's what a lot of Lebanese feel and uh I know many Lebanese including uh you know Sunni and Christian who are not happy with this agreement and feel that it was imposed by the United States on and Israel on Lebanon through bureaucratic and political means.
And it wasn't done democratically at all. Lebanon doesn't have any sovereignty. They don't have any authority over their own military. That's that's why they the policy of the Lebanese armed forces is not to engage Israel. That's their policy. Imagine. So, Israel, according to the Lebanese armed forces, has a free hand to kill, to bomb, to uh blow up entire villages, to to to to destroy 50,000 plus homes, infrastructure, and Israel can seize what it what it feels it it want it has to seize, even in terms of land, uh resources perhaps,
there's nothing the Lebanese armed forces will do to restrain or stand in their way. That's their policy. So if that's their policy, where does that leave the people in the south and the way the US just wants to frame this to the world to the west is uh well Israel's just defending itself against a terrorist organization.
 They they've listed Hezbollah as a terrorist organization. We've talked about this before. Um that's the framing of it. And then the people there are Hezbollah sympathizers or Shiites. They need to basically leave. And when they depopulate, Israel will feel safer. Okay? So they're using sectarianism as the basis for ethnic cleansing under threat of death.
 That's the Israeli position. That's what they've been doing. They've been threatening whole villages, parts of major cities like Tyra that they must that that Shiite Muslims cannot be allowed or be sheltered even by other Lebanese. If they will, then whoever's sheltering those refugees will become targets. This is a war crime.
 It's against every single shred of international humanitarian law. it it it's in violation of uh dozens and dozens and dozens of UN resolutions and security council resolutions. H how how is this even acceptable on any level? And and so that's so so the Lebanese armed forces can't do anything about any of this, but Hezbollah can and they are resisting that and they are inflicting damage on the IDF.
 um they are inflicting casualties on the Israeli forces. This is why Israel is desperate to have the United States uh intervene to create this uh stalemate, this impass um so that it can reinforce and reconsolidate its positions. That's that's it. Uh this is this was a major crisis for the IDF for the last two months. You know, it's it that's the only reason this is happening.
 And then they were even doubly uh uh worried that Iran imposing uh uh uh non-hostilities uh and no military aggression in Lebanon on Israel um will further make this a problem for the Israelis. And so they needed they need to get rid of thisou. They need to uh uh get the government in Beirut um uh somehow compliant. They need to create the the the the the conditions for a violent civil war in Lebanon.
 This is the only out for Israel is a violent civil war in Lebanon. That's that's their out. If they can achieve this and the United States is working with 100% Nema, don't even don't even think it's this isn't happening. The US intelligence are working with the al-Qaeda regime in Damascus as are Israeli intelligence and they are absolutely preparing as a contingency an incursion by uh terrorist al-Qaeda forces led by uh al- Shar the self-proclaimed head chopping president uh in order to uh antagonize uh and to somehow distract uh damage and inflict
casualties on Hezbollah. >> And Israel will use that as a green light to reconsolidate its positions and increase buffer zones. And beyond all this, we have the offshore maritime border dispute between Lebanon and Israel. And guess what? That problem goes away for Israel. That problem goes away.
 And they will extend their security line into the sea. And by doing that they they then retain control over two very uh lucrative gas fields, offshore gas fields that do belong to Lebanon and that the Israel's always been trying to create uh uh a legal controversy uh that has kept that mired in legal uh uh uh controversy and in international courts and arbitration for the longest time.
 It's also created problems within Lebanon as to, you know, who decides who's going to control which which company's going to get the contract, which sectarian family in Lebanon is going to reap the benefits of this offshore gas field. And meanwhile, Israel is now changing facts on the ground as well as facts off the coast, you see. And and that's looking ahead.
They're looking way ahead. They're 20 years ahead. And so the fresh water, offshore, agricultural land, security buffer zones, marrying up their positions in the Golden Heights and Mount Herman with South Lebanon, full operational control from Sueda all the way to the Mediterranean. And and it doesn't end there.
 It doesn't end there. It's the bad news for Lebanon does not end there. Then we're going to talk about Tripoli and the destabilization of North Lebanon at with Syria intervening. And the Gulf States are very keen in my opinion to finance a lot of this because they favor the takiri uh Salafist brand of Islam and the militant brand of Islam and that gives them more influence and control over large parts of Lebanon.
This is this is the game that's being played right now. Lebanon once again is a football pitch for other great powers to fight their battles and to play to to play games at the expense of the native uh Arab Levventine population as is in Palestine is also so with Lebanon. >> Yeah.
 Even under this so-called MU between Israel and Lebanon, we know something like 200,000 people were displaced during the war and Israel is destroying and just leveling many villages and cities, ancient villages in the southern part of Lebanon. This is a huge loss for the history of Lebanon in my opinion and the government doesn't seem to care about that.
 But when it comes to the reconstruction which was mentioned in theou it says reconstruction fund comes from the United States if again disarmament happens disarmament of Hezbollah. This is a recipe for disaster I think for Lebanon as a whole. The government is just, you know, there there are governments, there are countries in the region who want to help Lebanon to reconstruct basically the southern part of Lebanon for those people.
 Many people were displaced. Many Shia Christians and you know they were displaced and they want to get back home. They want to they're they cannot stay forever out you know going to you know to Beirut or some areas in Beirut in the central part of Lebanon. They want to get back home in the southern part of Lebanon. This is the problem.
 But they >> they're not safe in Beirut. >> They're not safe in Beirut. There's their refugee tents are being bombed by the IDF. You know the other thing Nema people don't realize that because of the sectarian division Lebanon the authorities represented by Joseph Aayun and Nuaf Salam are making it very difficult for internally displaced Shiites to move around the country.
 They don't have access and cannot stay where where they want. They're making they're harassing them. They're making they're they're cutting off access and freedom of movement for these people, making life very difficult for them because uh this is what the United States wants. That's what Israel wants. And as you just mentioned, Nema, uh there we go again, dangling the money, the reconstruction that this is how this is the game they play with the Lebanese forever.
 This is this and the west know how to play this game with the Lebanese and they use this to divide them. They use this, they use the money, the promises of money, the promises of of resolving this, funding that bailout, this bailout fund, whatever. There's always a crisis in Lebanon that needs bailing out.
 Whether it's the rubbish uh whether it's uh you know uh a water crisis, whether it's an electricity crisis, it's power, constantly in need of a bailout. It never ends. the port disaster couple years ago. What was that about? And we we we could get into that another time. Uh what actually happened there, but it's I we've seen it too often and again and again.
 And this is the same game that's being played now, but the the the results are devastating and so much more is at stake now. the the stability of the entire region is at stake and Iran has decided to create this hinge regarding South Lebanon for the region and and and it's the leverage has been working. It's created a global conversation and it's put a lot of pressure on Israel and pressure on the Trump administration and everything they're doing right now is to try to wiggle out of that corner.
 That's all of this theater in Beirut. This is what this is all about. And to do that, Trump needs to undermine and sabotage his ownou. And and he'll be he'll get support for that because the uh the GOP and the wararmongering crowd in Washington are saying this is a bad deal already and so is the Israeli lobby.
 and they they they've publicly stated they're going to uh uh they're going to dismantle theou in this process because it's bad for Israel and they're already saying oh it's a bad deal just like the JCPOA it's a bad deal. So it's just and I I don't think Trump is uh I'm not going to give him the credit that some of the other pundits do on some of these podcasts.
People are saying, "Oh, Donald Trump really doesn't want this war. He never wanted this war." I I don't believe that for a second. he did the war. So, it's it's it's it's uh >> I think he's the only one maybe in the administration who wanted who really wanted this war. He thought that he he's going to get something big out of this war.
>> It's irrelevant what he may have said on the campaign trail or what he a sideways comment that he might have made about, you know, going to war with Iran, how that would be a disaster, whatever. It doesn't matter because he did it. He did it twice. >> He he engaged in a in an undeclared war of aggression twice against Iran in the last year. So, it doesn't really matter.
So, I I don't think he's serious. I don't think he understands what he's into. I don't think he has any idea how to get out of it. And personally, I don't think he has the courage politically to stand up to the Israel lobby or to stand up to the hawks in his own party, quite frankly, and certainly not the media.
 He'll just be manipulated. If the American establishment, the media, the political establishment, the consensus in Washington, if they want more war, they're going to get more war. And Donald Trump's not going to have any say in that at all. He He will just go along with it. He's not a very strong political leader. He's very weak.
 He is one of the weakest US presidents in history. And you can tell he's weak because he constantly has to have an entourage around him because he's so insecure. He's always flanked by his lieutenants. He can't do anything. He needs to always have a show of force. He's constantly uh deferring to Pete Hegsth or Marco Riio whenever there's a difficult question or an issue comes up.
