Hi everybody. Today's Tuesday, June 30th, 2026 and our dear friend, our brother Patrick Henningston is here with us. Welcome back, Patrick. >> Great to be with you, Nema. >> Yeah, Patrick, we have the two delegations going to Katar. One of them is still with Governor Jared Kushner. And the Iranian delegation going to go there tonight, you know, tonight.
 Not tonight for me, tonight for Iranians. Yeah, it's going to be because it's going to be evening here or afternoon here. It's going to be the night in Iran. They're going to go there. There would be no talks between the two sides. Basically what their the main objective of the you know this sort of visit is going to be you know the on the part of Iranians it's going to be $6 billion of Iranian frozen assets to be released.
 I assume that Steve Wkov and J Kushner are somehow are going to they're going to go there to manage that to see how Iran is going to spend that $6 billion dollar. This is the main objective in my opinion. Nobody's talking about it. But this is my my understanding is this. On the other hand, they're talking about these two guys going to talk with mediators, the Pakistani and rat mediators about the next step and the steps ahead.
 Then what is happening in the region is the case of straight formos is still still critical. You know based on the data it shows something like 15 to 20 vessels passing through this radar for most today I talked with Mirandi he said something like 30 ships or vessels commercial vessels passing right now to yesterday at least yesterday and the day before so there is some difference between you know the data we have is 20 15 20 what Mirandi told me it's 30 so I his number is more accurate.
 Then we have the French president Emanuel Macarron going to Oman talking about let's make a new deal and I'm going to send mind sweepers and we're going to you know clean up you know the routes. So but what was just before coming to this live came out in New York Times. It says Iran and Oman are moving ahead with plans to introduce service fees for ships transit indust despite American objections.
So this is what's going on right now and my understanding about Marco Rubia and the pressure he tried to put on GCC countries recently with his recent visit to Bahrain, Kuwait and UAE is part of the game on putting pressure on Omani government. Then you see macaron coming in.
 It reminds me of the way that the United States during the Biden administration tried to manage China to not support Russia and they we had Americans putting pressure from all sides. Then you see all of Schulz going to China talking with Chinese which didn't work. And it seems it would be the case. Macarron going to Oman is not going to change that much.
 But you what is your understanding the way that Washington is playing its sort of leverages or it sort of mean you know somehow is using its means or making its moves to somehow object to the new mechanism of this trade of formos. >> Sure. Thanks Nima. I I I'm just looking at the pattern of behavior from the United States and how they conduct themselves in negotiations and how they use negotiations as a type of a facade or a smokeokc screen to uh try to make various tactical moves um in order to improve their leverage and their in
their eyes their negotiating positions by altering facts on the ground. and and and this has been the the US pattern and I think they've learned this from the Israelis. This is this is the standard Israeli practice for negotiations is to uh manipulate the process uh and change facts on the ground and then therefore change the uh negotiations uh offer and the equation basically um so that they will either uh uh undermine the other side uh or increase their uh leverage in order to get more of what they want basically.
And uh uh I think what we saw uh what and you're it's complicated Nean because we're dealing with multiple state actors. We're probably dealing with multiple intelligence services and the reason they're pressuring Oman is because the the the physical management of the strait of Hormuse is of the utmost importance for the Islamic Republic of Iran.
 this is their strong by far their strongest leverage um the physical management of this waterway and if the United States believes that they can undermine that or they can create a situation where they can make a case to the world that Iran doesn't have any control over it or or mismanaging it um or don't aren't controlling it in the way that they say they're controlling it and create types of pockets of chaos or incidents very much like what we saw just a few days ago.
 And I I believe that was engineered uh I I'll give the benefit of the doubt to the Singaporean flag tanker that this was maybe some confusion which was in in my understanding instigated by a UK uh trade organiza international trade organization that kind of is nested either within the UK Ministry of Defense uh uh constellation of organizations or right adjacent to it.
 I that part I'm not sure, but the the UK maritime trade operations was giving advice to ships of how to uh uh transit the straits by hugging quote hugging the Omani coastline. Okay. Uh and they're evading the Iranian uh management uh uh mechanisms, checks and so forth. and and that's what c that that's to me this is one of the things that looked like uh it caused this.
 Now if I go to their website this this UK maritime organization the yesterday at least the advice was very clear. Um it says nothing about the Iranian management and it advises them to try to stay as close as possible to the Omani coast. Okay. So this is so important for Iran because uh this is by far their strongest hand in all of this and this is at the core of any leverage that and this extends all the way to Lebanon from the straight of Hormuz.
 And the United States is going to work very hard with its allies in Israel to try to uh uh eat away at this um and sort of cast out on the Iranians ability to manage it and then maybe demonize them, blame them for things that are going to go wrong. And I I I'm pretty certain that this is the US strategy. Um, I I will say based on the behavior of this uh what I call contrived incident with the Singaporean tanker, the United States was looking for a situation where they could escalate.
 Okay? And they're also picking off radar installations and infrastructure little by little. And the reason they want to do that, the United States want to use this period to weaken um Iran's management or ability to manage or logistical infrastructure uh to govern or work in and around the straight of Hormuse. And they plan to do this by just going by their behavior.
Nemo, I'm not uh theorizing here. Uh and this goes really for the last four weeks. All of the targets have been very calculated. So that that's what I think the US agenda is. They have no intention of honoring any of this agreement. I I I don't believe they do. I I don't I believe the US has has entered this in bad faith from the beginning and they're using negotiations as a facade in order to improve their position for a future attack and undermine Iran's ability to manage the straits and therefore undermining Iran's uh clout and
credibility that extends all the way to the to the theater in Lebanon. that that that's my firm belief at this point and I think I could assemble uh quite a bit of evidence that's in the public domain that I think would back up my u conclusion on that. I know that sounds cynical and I know that's not what a lot of pundits are saying right now, but I truly believe that that's the case.
>> I think each and every sign right now supports your take on what's going on between Iran and the United States. nothing is nothing positive is coming out basically when it comes to this trade of formos and Lebanon these two important issues and none none of them has been any sort of you know the United States didn't do anything to achieve or to abide by the the line by that clause you know the line one is related to or the paragraph one is related to the case of Lebanon they're basically what is theou right now between Lebanon and
Israel The main reason of the MOU is to be the anomou the first clause in the MOU between Iran and the United States. The first clause in you see how in details they tried to counter the clause number one of theou. >> Yes. >> First of all, Israel going to stay there forever as long as Lebanon or Hezbollah is not >> disarmed.
 M >> it means it totally against the clause one which it says immediately they have to they have to be withdrawn immediately from Lebanon and no war no conflict and look at the MOU between I think it's goes beyond you know what was achieved with Iranian MOU with the Lebanese MOU they're they're going beyond and just destroying the Iran the Lebanese position >> yes >> there is nothing there in favor of Lebanon.
 I don't know how the government in Lebanon has decided to sign that MOU. There is no positive sign. >> Uh uh so clearly Nema I I think the the government in Lebanon's constantly under heavy duress. um also constantly being uh promised incentives and if you look at the US and the international organizations how they interface with Lebanon and you know this has been like this for the last 15 20 years they're constantly dangling incentives like you know um uh loans loan guarantees developmental loans financial aid IMF finance all of this stuff constantly
this is this is the currency And Lebanon just limps from one crisis to the next with the promise the West are dangling some cash. Usually between one and two billion or maybe two and four billion at the most. But these are the type of rescue packages about that that amount maybe 500 million.
 It's always in that sort of range and they're constantly just dragging them along. Um so that if they behave if they do what the western governments or institutions want them to do then they'll have that fin access to that finance and that makes its way through the system and I don't have to tell you that uh you know Lebanon in many ways is wildly corrupt and that corruption has been engendered by the uh the the economic deprivation that's come from this constant crisis that's been you know that that's been imposed on that country by Israel and and really by
the United States and and then they're also living off Gulf, you know, injections of cash. I'm sure there's uh incentives, promises of investment constantly. It's it never stops. And then probably bribes uh in different forms uh not necessarily, you know, under the table, but through uh direct foreign investment and then who gets access to these opportunities.
 This is the problem with Lebanon. It's always been the problem. They can't uh iron out the situation. So when I looked at that uh theou uh Nema and then the United States looks like they're going to enter into this and then you see uh orders being given to IDF military commanders not to not to fire, you know, to restrain to hold in defensive positions within Lebanon.
 when we see this and then we also see uh Iran restraining itself uh in the face of violations by the Israelis immediately that happened and they continue to happen. They're restraining themselves. But what was happening from the beginning of this process? Marco Rubio was behind the scenes engineering this deal, this normalization deal between uh uh uh Beirut and Israel. Okay.
 And this they fully intended to make this to undermine theou. That's why they've done it. This was a bureaucratic and a sort of sneaky way to kill the agreement between the US and Iran. And doing so with the full coordination of the Israeli government, of Netanyahu's office, the the Israeli lobby working through Marco Rubio. Okay.
with the full intention of using this to sabotage this deal. That's exactly what was going on behind the scenes while theou is being drafted. You see, there's no way. It can't be any other way. And and so that that was an attempt by Trump uh to sabotage his own deal. Okay? Or you could blame it on Rubio or whatever, but we're talking about the US government.
 This is the Trump administration. and they do it in such a way that they'll be able to say make people believe that there's different factions uh you know that Netanyahu is at war with Trump. I I personally don't believe any of that. We're talking about the US government, the Trump administration and everything under that.
 So, you can't tell me they didn't know the implications of this incredibly uh uh I would say divisive uh deal that was imposed on the bay the government in Beirut that has really no chance of ever really being implemented or has no chance of success. it it's going to fail in very much the same way that the uh Lebanon Israeli Accord failed uh back in 1983, the the infamous May 17th uh agreement.
